Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 59 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 83 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 83 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 160 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 160 Item 9B. Other Information 163 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 163 Part III 164 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 164 Item 11. Executive Compensation 164 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 164 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 164 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 164 Part IV 165 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 166 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 168 Signatures 169 2 Table o f Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”), as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this report, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial condition, business strategy, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “design,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potentially,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would,” or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: • our expectations regarding our future revenue, expenses, and other operating results and key operating metrics; • our ability to attract new merchants and commerce partners and retain and grow our relationships with existing merchants and commerce partners; • our ability to compete successfully in a highly competitive industry; • our ability to attract new consumers and retain and grow our relationships with our existing consumers; • our expectations regarding the development, innovation, introduction of, and demand for, our products; • our ability to successfully engage new originating bank partners; • the availability of funding sources to support our business model; • our ability to effectively price and score credit risk using our proprietary risk model; • the performance of loans facilitated and originated through our platform; • the future growth rate of our revenue and related key operating metrics; • our ability to achieve or sustain profitability in the future; • our ability to remain in compliance with laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business; • our ability to protect our confidential, proprietary, or sensitive information; • past and future acquisitions, investments, and other strategic investments; • our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; • litigation, investigations, regulatory inquiries, and proceedings; • the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our business, including the impacts of inflation and a rising interest rate environment; and • the size and growth rates of the markets in which we compete. Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including risks described in the section titled “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors that could harm our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive, heavily regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ from those contained in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements. 3 Table o f Contents You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable as of the date of this report, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, events, or circumstances. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report or to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. You should read this Form 10-K and the documents that we have filed as exhibits to this report with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance, and achievements may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. In addition, statements such as “we believe” and similar statements reflect our current beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and you are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Investors and others should note that we may announce material business and financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (investors.affirm.com), our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, webcasts, press releases, conference calls, and social media. We use these mediums, including our website, to communicate with investors and the general public about our company, our products, and other issues. It is possible that the information that we make available on our website may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors and others interested in our company to review the information that we make available on our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this filing. We have included our investor relations website address only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. 4 Table o f Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Affirm was founded in 2012 with a mission to deliver honest financial products that improve lives. We are building the next generation platform for digital and mobile-first commerce. We believe that by using modern technology, strong engineering talent, and a mission-driven approach, we can reinvent payments and commerce. Our solutions, which are built on trust and transparency, are designed to make it easier for consumers to spend responsibly and with confidence, easier for merchants and commerce platforms to convert sales and grow, and easier for commerce to thrive. Our Business Legacy payment options, archaic systems, and traditional risk and credit underwriting models can be harmful, deceptive, and restrictive to both consumers and merchants. We believe that they are not well-suited for increasingly digital and mobile-first commerce, and are built on legacy infrastructure that does not support the innovation required for modern commerce to evolve and flourish. Our platform is designed to address these problems. Our company is predicated on the principles of simplicity, transparency, and putting people first. Since our founding, we have charged $0 in late fees for missed payments. We never profit from consumers’ mistakes, and we are always transparent in our product offerings. By adhering to these principles, we have built enduring, trust-based relationships with consumers and merchants. We believe that our technology, underwriting, and risk management are key competitive advantages. Our proprietary technology’s ability to price and assess risk at a transaction level provides a unique advantage compared to legacy payment and credit systems. Our approach to risk management is core to our business model and has been proven to lead to low fraud rates, higher approval rates compared to traditional credit underwriting models, and low credit losses. Our models have been built on billions of data points, including data from over 71 million loans and over seven years of repayments. Furthermore, our risk management models are designed to continuously improve over time, becoming more precise and efficient with each transaction powered by our platform. What this means for consumers is increased purchasing power and more control and flexibility. As of June 30, 2022, over 23 million consumers have trusted Affirm as their transaction partner. By utilizing our unique risk model predicated on sophisticated machine learning algorithms, proprietary data, and product-level underwriting, we can serve consumers across the credit spectrum and price risk across transaction types. Consumers on our platform represent a broad cross-section of society. For merchants, Affirm's commerce solutions help drive growth by enhancing demand generation and customer acquisition. Our platform is explicitly designed and engineered to integrate with a wide range of merchants. This is a point of differentiation for us, as we can accommodate and partner with merchants regardless of industry, size, average order value ( “ AOV”), or customer profile. As of June 30, 2022, we had approximately 235,000 active merchants, ranging from small businesses to large enterprises, direct-to-consumer brands, brick-and-mortar stores, and companies with an omni-channel presence. Our merchants span a diverse range of industries, including sporting goods and outdoors, furniture and homewares, travel and ticketing, apparel, accessories, consumer electronics, and jewelry. No single merchant accounted for more than 10% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. Our business model is designed to align with the interests of both consumers and merchants. 5 Table o f Contents From merchants, we typically earn a fee when we help them convert a sale and power a payment. Merchant fees depend on the individual arrangement between us and each merchant and vary based on the terms of the product offering; we generally earn larger merchant fees on 0% annual percentage rate (“APR ”) financing products. We have two loan product offerings: Split Pay and Core loans. Split Pay is a short-term payment plan with 0% APR, while Core loans include all interest bearing installment loans and 0% APR monthly installment loans with term lengths greater than three months. For fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 , Split Pay and Core 0% loans represented 22% and 21%, respectively, of total Gross Merchandise Volume (“GMV ” ) facilitated through our platform. For fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, Split Pay and Core 0% loans represented 11% and 32%, respectively, of total GMV. This structure incentivizes us to help our merchants convert sales and increase AOV through the commerce and technology solutions offered by our platform. From consumers, we earn interest income on the simple interest loans that we originate or purchase from our originating bank partners. Interest rates charged to our consumers vary depending on the transaction risk, creditworthiness of the consumer, the repayment term selected by the consumer, the amount of the loan, and the individual arrangement with a merchant. Because consumers are never charged deferred or compounding interest or late fees, we are not incentivized to profit from our consumers’ mistakes or misfortunes. We also facilitate the issuance of virtual cards directly to consumers through our app, allowing them to shop with merchants that are not fully integrated with Affirm. When these virtual cards are used over established card networks, we earn a portion of the interchange fee from the transaction. We have already achieved significant scale, facilitating consumer purchases of $15.5 billion in GMV in fiscal year 2022. Our Platform Our business transforms the way consumers and merchants transact by creating a powerful platform built upon honest financial products. Our platform comprises three core elements: point-of-sale payment solutions for consumers, merchant commerce solutions, and a consumer-focused app. We started our business with our core pay-over-time solution at checkout, and have since continued to innovate and expand our product suite by building and acquiring solutions that address the needs of both consumers and merchants. We plan to further add to our solutions over time so that we may offer more benefits to our consumers and merchants. Consumer features • Checkout. When purchasing from one of our partner merchants, consumers can choose Affirm as a payment method, giving them the option to pay over time with terms ranging from 6 weeks to 60 months. We monitor merchants’ creditworthiness, consumer complaints and dispute rates, changes in consumer repayment behavior, and other data to give consumers the confidence that merchants integrated with Affirm are committed to delivering honest and delightful experiences. • Consumer first borrowing. Our frictionless solution makes it easy for consumers to apply for a loan and be approved on the spot. Consumers receive either 0% APR, where they pay no interest, or simple interest loans, where they pay fixed amounts of interest that never compound. We underwrite each transaction individually and—by never charging late fees—we do not profit when consumers fall behind. Our success is fundamentally aligned with our consumers’ success. Our proprietary risk model has consistently outperformed traditional credit models, enabling us to better help eligible consumers finance their purchases. Consumers never pay more than what they agreed to at checkout, even if they miss or are late on a payment. • Virtual card. Consumers can apply at affirm.com or via the Affirm app and, upon approval, receive a single-use virtual card to use digitally online or in-store at merchants that accept Visa cards. This allows 6 Table o f Contents our consumers to use our pay-over-time solutions at merchants that a