Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 78 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 81 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 149 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 149 Item 9B. Other Information 152 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 152 Part III 153 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 153 Item 11. Executive Compensation 153 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 153 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 153 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 153 Part IV 154 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 155 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 158 Signatures 159 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”), as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this Report, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial condition, business strategy, and plans and objectives of management regarding future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “design,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potentially,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would,” or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: • our expectations regarding our future revenue, expenses, and other operating results and key operating metrics; • our ability to attract new merchant partners and commerce platforms and grow our relationships with existing merchant partners and commerce platforms; • our ability to compete successfully in a highly competitive and evolving industry; • our ability to attract new consumers and retain and grow our relationships with our existing consumers; • our expectations regarding the development, innovation, introduction of, and demand for, our products; • our ability to successfully maintain our relationship with existing originating bank partners and card issuing bank partners and engage additional originating bank partners and card issuing bank partners; • our ability to maintain, renew or replace our existing funding arrangements and build and grow new funding relationships; • the impact of any of our funding sources becoming unwilling or unable to provide funding to us on terms acceptable to us, or at all; • our ability to effectively price and score credit risk using our proprietary risk model; • the performance of loans facilitated and originated through our platform; • the future growth rate of our revenue and related key operating metrics; • our ability to achieve sustained profitability in the future; • our ability, and the ability of our originating bank and other partners, to comply, and remain in compliance with, laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business or the businesses of such partners; • our ability to protect our confidential, proprietary, or sensitive information; • past and future acquisitions, investments, and other strategic investments; • our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; • litigation, investigations, regulatory inquiries, and proceedings; • developments in our regulatory environment; • the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our business, including the impacts of inflation, an elevated interest rate environment and corresponding increases in negotiated interest rate spreads, ongoing recessionary concerns and the potential for more instability of financial institutions; and • the size and growth rates of the markets in which we compete. Forward-looking statements, including statements such as “we believe” and similar statements, are based on our management’s current beliefs, opinions and assumptions and on information currently available as of the date 3 Table of Contents of this Report. Such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including risks described in the section titled “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive, heavily regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks that we may face, nor can we assess the impact of all risks on our business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause our actual results to differ from those contained in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable as of the date of this Report, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, events, outcomes, timing of results or circumstances. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Report or to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. You should read this Form 10-K and the documents that we have filed as exhibits to this Report with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance, outcomes, achievements and timing of results or outcomes may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Investors and others should note that we may announce material business and financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (investors.affirm.com), our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), webcasts, press releases, conference calls, and social media. We use these mediums, including our website, to communicate with investors and the general public about our company, our products, and other issues. It is possible that the information that we make available on our website may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors and others interested in our Company to review the information that we make available on our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this filing. We have included our investor relations website address only as an inactive textual reference for convenience and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Affirm was founded in 2012 with a mission to deliver honest financial products that improve lives. We are building the next generation payment network. We believe that by using modern technology, strong engineering talent, and a mission-driven approach, we can reinvent payments and commerce. Our solutions, which are built on trust and transparency, are designed to make it easier for consumers to spend responsibly and with confidence, easier for merchants and commerce platforms to convert sales and grow, and easier for commerce to thrive. Our Business Legacy payment options, archaic systems, and traditional risk and credit underwriting models can be harmful, deceptive, and restrictive to both consumers and merchants. We believe that they are not well-suited for increasingly digital and mobile-first commerce, and are built on legacy infrastructure that does not support the innovation required for modern commerce to evolve and flourish. Our platform is designed to address these problems. Our company is predicated on the principles of simplicity, transparency, and putting people first. Since our founding, we have charged $0 in late fees for missed payments. We do not profit from consumers’ mistakes, and we are transparent in our product offerings. By adhering to these principles, we have built enduring, trust-based relationships with consumers and merchants. We believe that our technology, underwriting, and risk management are key competitive advantages. Our proprietary technology’s ability to price and assess risk at a transaction level provides a unique advantage compared to legacy payment and credit systems. Our approach to risk management is core to our business model and has led to lower fraud rates, higher approval rates compared to traditional credit underwriting models, and lower credit losses. Our models have been built on extensive data points, including data from approximately 215 million loans. Furthermore, our risk management models are designed to continuously improve over time, becoming more precise and efficient with each transaction powered by our platform. What this means for consumers is increased purchasing power with more control and flexibility. By utilizing our unique risk model predicated on sophisticated machine learning algorithms, proprietary data, and product-level underwriting, we can serve consumers across the credit spectrum and price risk across transaction types. Consumers on our platform represent a broad cross-section of society. For merchants, Affirm’s commerce solutions help drive growth by enhancing demand generation and consumer acquisition. Our platform is explicitly designed and engineered to integrate with a wide range of merchants. This is a point of differentiation for us, as we can accommodate and partner with merchants to serve their payment needs across a wide variety of industries, size, average order value (“AOV”), or consumer profile. As of June 30, 2024, we had approximately 303 thousand active merchants, ranging from small businesses to large enterprises, direct-to-consumer brands, brick-and-mortar stores, and companies with an omni-channel presence. As used herein, “merchants” may reference merchants and/or e-commerce platforms. Our merchants span a diverse range of industries, including sporting goods and outdoors, home and lifestyle, travel and ticketing, electronics, fashion and beauty, equipment and auto, and general merchandise. We have three main loan product offerings: Pay-in-4, 0% annual percentage rate (“APR”) monthly installment loans and interest-bearing monthly installment loans. Pay-in-4 is a short-term payment plan with four biweekly 0% APR installments. Our business model is designed to align with the interests of both consumers and merchants. 5 Table of Contents From merchants, we typically earn a fee when we help them convert a sale and facilitate a transaction. Merchant fees depend on the individual arrangement between us and each merchant and vary based on the terms of the product offering; we generally earn larger merchant fees on 0% APR financing products. For fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 , Pay-in-4 and 0% APR installment loans represented 15% and 11% , respectively, of total gross merchandise volume (“GMV”) facilitated through our platform. For fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, Pay-in-4 and 0% APR installment loans represented 19% and 13%, respectively, of total GMV facilitated through our platform. This revenue model incentivizes us to help our merchants convert sales and increase AOV through the commerce and technology solutions offered by our platform. From consumers, we earn interest income on the interest bearing installment loans that we originate or purchase from our originating bank partners. Interest rates charged to our consumers vary depending on several factors including transaction risk, creditworthiness of the consumer, the repayment term selected by the consumer, the amount of the loan, and the individual arrangement with a merchant. Because consumers are not charged deferred or compounding interest or late fees, we are not incentivized to profit from our consumers’ mistakes or misfortunes. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 , interest-bearing monthly installment loans represented 74% and 68% , respectively, of total GMV. We also facilitate the issuance of virtual cards directly to consumers through our App, allowing them to shop with merchants that are not integrated with Affirm. Similarly, we also facilitate the issuance of the Affirm Card, a debit card that can be used physically or virtually and which allows consumers to link a bank account to pay in full, or apply to pay over time for their purchase through the Affirm App. Merchants may also elect to use the virtual card as a method to facilitate the offering of installment loans to allow their customers to pay over time. Merchants are charged an interchange fee for each successful card transaction, and a portion of this revenue is shared with us by our card-issuing partners. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 we have facilitated consumer purchases of $26.6 billion in GMV. Our Platform Our business transforms the way consumers and merchants transact by creating a powerful platform built upon honest financial products. We started our business with our foundational pay-over-time solution at checkout, and have since continued to innovate and expand our product suite by building and acquiring solutions that address the evolving needs of both consumers and merchants. Our platform comprises three core elements: point-of-sale payment solutions for consumers, merchant commerce solutions, and a consumer-focused app. The current suite of solutions we provide to our consumers and merchants is outlined below: Consumer features • Affirm at Checkout. When purchasing from one of our partner merchants, consumers can choose Affirm as a payment method, giving them the option to pay over time with terms ranging from weeks to months. We monitor merchants’ creditworthiness, consumer complaints and dispute rates, changes in consumer repayment behavior, and other data to give consumers the confidence that merchants integrated with Affirm are committed to delivering honest and delightful experiences. • Consumer first borrowing. Our products make it easy for consumers to apply for a loan and be approved instantaneously. Consumers receive either 0% APR bi-weekly or monthly installments, where they pay no interest, or interest-bearing monthly installment loans, where they pay fixed amounts of interest that do not