Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 105 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 106 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 106 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 107 Consolidated Statement of Income 110 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 112 Consolidated Balance Sheet 113 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 115 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 116 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 118 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 198 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 198 Item 9B. Other Information 198 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 198 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 199 Item 11. Executive Compensation 201 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 201 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 201 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 201 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 202 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 204 Signatures 205 2 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms The following is a list of abbreviations and acronyms that are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Term Definition A.M. Best A.M. Best Company, Inc. ABS Asset-backed securities AC Audit Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ALCO Asset-Liability Committee ALM Asset Liability Management ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BHC Bank holding company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended BMC Better Mortgage Company Board Ally Board of Directors CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CD Certificate of deposit CECL Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 (and related Accounting Standards Updates), or current expected credit loss CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 as amended CSG Commercial Services Group CVA Credit valuation adjustment DE&I Diversity, equity, and inclusion Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 as amended DIF Deposit Insurance Fund EAD Exposure at default EGRRCP Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act as amended ERMC Enterprise Risk Management Committee ERG Employee resource group ESG Environmental, social, and governance ETF Exchange-traded fund F&I Finance and insurance Fair Square Fair Square Financial Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDI Act Federal Deposit Insurance Act as amended FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 as amended FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FRB Federal Reserve Bank, or Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as the context requires FSR Financial Strength Rating FTP Funds-transfer pricing GAP Guaranteed asset protection GDP Gross domestic product of the United States of America 3 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition GLB Act Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 as amended GM General Motors Company HR Human resources IB Finance IB Finance Holding Company, LLC IRA Individual retirement account LCR Liquidity coverage ratio LGD Loss given default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIHTC Low-income housing tax credit LMI Low-to-moderate income LTV Loan-to-value MBS Mortgage-backed securities MD&A Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations NFA National Futures Association NYDFS New York Department of Financial Services NYSE New York Stock Exchange OTC Over-the-counter P&C Property and casualty PCA Prompt corrective action PCD Purchased credit deteriorated PD Probability of default PSU Performance Stock Unit or Award RC Risk Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ROU Right-of-use RSU Restricted Stock Unit or Award RV Recreational vehicle RWA Risk-weighted asset SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Series 2 TRUPS 8.125% Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities, Series 2 of GMAC Capital Trust I SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SPE Special-purpose entity SRO Self-regulatory organization Stellantis Stellantis N.V. TMCF Thurgood Marshall College Fund TDR Troubled debt restructuring UDFI Utah Department of Financial Institutions UPB Unpaid principal balance U.S. Basel III The rules implementing the 2010 Basel III capital framework in the United States as well as related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended from time to time U.S. GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America VIE Variable interest entity VMC Vehicle maintenance contract VSC Vehicle service contract WAC Weighted-average coupon wSTWF Weighted short-term wholesale funding 4 Table of Contents Part I Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Item 1. Business Our Business Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, or we, us, or our) is a leading digital financial-services company with $182.1 billion in assets as of December 31, 2021. As a customer-centric company with passionate customer service and innovative financial solutions, we are relentlessly focused on “Doing it Right” and being a trusted financial-services provider to our consumer, commercial, and corporate customers. We are one of the largest full-service automotive finance operations in the United States and offer a wide range of financial services and insurance products to automotive dealerships and consumers. Our award-winning digital direct bank (Ally Bank, Member FDIC and Equal Housing Lender) offers mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending, consumer credit cards, and a variety of deposit and other banking products, including savings, money-market, and checking accounts, CDs, and IRAs. Additionally, we offer securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services through Ally Invest. Our corporate-finance business offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. We are a Delaware corporation and are registered as a BHC under the BHC Act, and an FHC under the GLB Act. Our primary business lines are Dealer Financial Services, which is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance. Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, the activity related to Ally Invest, Ally Lending, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Additionally, beginning in December 2021 with the acquisition of Fair Square, which we rebranded Ally Credit Card, financial information related to our credit card business is included within Corporate and Other. Ally Bank’s assets and operating results are included within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance segments, as well as Corporate and Other, based on its underlying business activities. As of December 31, 2021, Ally Bank had total assets of $172.8 billion, and total nonaffiliate deposits of $141.6 billion. Our long-term strategic objectives are centered around differentiating our company as a relentless ally for the financial well-being of our consumer, commercial, and corporate customers by (1) leveraging our “Do it Right” purpose-driven culture as we drive enhanced value for our customers, communities, employees, and stockholders, (2) growing and diversifying our leading automotive, insurance, and digital-bank platforms through increased scale and expanded product solutions, (3) driving ongoing customer growth and relationship deepening, (4) operating under efficient, disciplined risk management and capital allocation approaches, (5) out-executing our competition and creating differentiated advantages through continuous investment and evolution among our leading experiences, products, and brand, and (6) delivering long-term value evident through sustainable financial results and stockholder returns. We seek to extend our leading position in automotive finance in the United States by continuing to provide automotive dealers and their retail customers with premium service, a comprehensive product suite, consistent funding, and competitive pricing—reflecting our commitment to the automotive industry. Within our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, we are also focused on strengthening our network of dealer relationships and pursuing digital distribution channels for our products and services, including through our operation of a direct-lending platform and our work with dealers innovating in digital transactions—all while maintaining an appropriate level of risk appetite. Within our other banking operations—including Mortgage Finance and Corporate Finance—we seek to expand our consumer and commercial banking products and services while providing a high level of customer service. Ally Lending currently serves medical, retail, and home improvement service providers by enabling promotional and fixed rate installment-loan products through a digital application process at point-of-sale. We continue to focus on delivering significant and sustainable growth and retention in deposit customers and balances while optimizing our cost of funds. At Ally Invest, we seek to augment our securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services to more comprehensively assist our customers in managing their savings and wealth. Additionally, we acquired Fair Square in December 2021, which provides us with a scalable, digital-first credit card platform, and advances our evolution as a leading digital consumer bank. Ally Credit Card (formerly Fair Square) features leading-edge technology, and a proprietary, analytics-based underwriting model. We believe the addition of credit card to our suite of products enhances our ability to grow and deepen both new and existing customer relationships. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term “loans” means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term “operating leases” means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle’s residual value. The terms “lend,” “finance,” and “originate” mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases as applicable. The term “consumer” means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “commercial” means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “partnerships” means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. For further details and information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide, refer to the MD&A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Table of Contents Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Industry and Competition The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance, mortgage finance, point-of-sale personal lending, and consumer credit cards), securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory services are highly competitive. We directly compete in the automotive financing market with banks, credit unions, captive automotive finance companies, and independent finance companies. Our insurance business also faces significant competition from automotive manufacturers, captive automotive finance companies, insurance carriers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Some of these competitors in automotive financing and insurance, such as captive automotive finance companies, have certain exclusivity privileges with automotive manufacturers whose customers and dealers make up a significant portion of our customer base. In addition, our banking, securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory businesses face intense competition from banks, savings associations, finance companies, credit unions, mutual funds, investment advisers, asset managers, brokerage firms, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage-banking companies, and credit-card companies. Financial-technology (fintech) companies also compete with us directly and in partnership with other banks and financial-services providers in lending, deposits, securities-brokerage, investment-advisory, and other markets. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some also have significantly greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than Ally. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and customer growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and customer service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. Regulation and Supervision We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks in the United States—at federal, state, and local levels—that affect the products and services that we may offer and the manner in which we may offer them, the risks that we may take, the ways in which we may operate, and the corporate and financial actions that we may take. We also have limited businesses and operations in Canada and other countries that must comply with expa