Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 38 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 113 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 114 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 114 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 115 Consolidated Statement of Income 118 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 120 Consolidated Balance Sheet 121 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 123 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 124 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 126 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 211 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 211 Item 9B. Other Information 211 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 211 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 212 Item 11. Executive Compensation 214 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 214 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 214 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 214 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 215 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 217 Signatures 218 2 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms The following is a list of abbreviations and acronyms that are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Term Definition AC Audit Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ALCO Asset-Liability Committee ALM Asset Liability Management A.M. Best A.M. Best Company, Inc. AMLA Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BF Bornhuetter-Ferguson BHC Bank holding company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended BHF Better Home & Finance Holding Company (formerly BMC Holdco) BMC Better Mortgage Company BMC Holdco Parent of BMC Board Ally Board of Directors BTFP Bank Term Funding Program CAMT Corporate alternative minimum tax CD Certificate of deposit CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CECL Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 (and related Accounting Standards Updates), or current expected credit loss CEO Chief executive officer CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CIDDO Chief Information, Data and Digital Officer CISO Chief Information Security Officer CODM Chief operating decision maker COH Corporate overhead COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended CSG Commercial Services Group CSRP Cyber Security Response Plan CVA Credit valuation adjustment DE&I Diversity, equity, and inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as amended DRR Designated reserve ratio DVA Debit valuation adjustment EAD Exposure at default EGRRCP Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, as amended ERG Employee resource group ERMC Enterprise Risk Management Committee ESG Environmental, social, and governance ETF Exchange-traded fund EV Electric vehicle Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 3 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition F&I Finance and insurance FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDI Act Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, as amended FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Fintech Financial-technology FRB Federal Reserve Bank, or Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as the context requires FSR Financial Strength Rating FTP Funds-transfer pricing GAP Guaranteed asset protection GDP Gross domestic product of the United States of America GLB Act Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended GM General Motors Company HR Human resources HVAC Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning IB Finance IB Finance Holding Company, LLC ICP Incentive compensation plan ICR Issuer Credit Rating IDI Insured Depository Institution IRA Individual retirement account ISO International Organization for Standards LCR Liquidity coverage ratio LGD Loss given default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Act Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act LIHTC Low-income housing tax credit LMI Low-to-moderate income LTV Loan-to-value MACRS Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System MD&A Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MRM Model risk management MVG Model validation group NYDFS New York Department of Financial Services NYSE New York Stock Exchange OEM Automotive original equipment manufacturer OTC Over-the-counter P&C Property and casualty PCA Prompt corrective action PD Probability of default PSU Performance Stock Unit or Award RC Risk Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ROU Right-of-use 4 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition RSU Restricted Stock Unit or Award RV Recreational vehicle RWA Risk-weighted asset SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Signature Signature Bank SIPC Securities Investor Protection Corporation SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SPE Special-purpose entity SRO Self-regulatory organization Stellantis Stellantis N.V. STEM Science, technology, engineering and mathematics SVB Silicon Valley Bank Tailoring Rules The rules implementing Title IV of the EGRRCP Act TC Technology Committee of the Ally Board of Directors TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TDR Troubled debt restructuring TLAC Total loss-absorbing capacity TPRM Third party risk management UDAAP Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices UDFI Utah Department of Financial Institutions UPB Unpaid principal balance U.S. Basel III The rules implementing the 2010 Basel III capital framework in the United States as well as related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended from time to time U.S. GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America VIE Variable interest entity VMC Vehicle maintenance contract VSC Vehicle service contract WAC Weighted-average coupon wSTWF Weighted short-term wholesale funding 5 Table of Contents Part I Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Item 1. Business Our Business Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, we, us, or our) is a financial-services company with $196.4 billion in assets as of December 31, 2023. The Company comprises the nation’s largest all-digital bank and an industry-leading automotive financing and insurance business, driven by a mission to “Do It Right” and be a relentless ally for customers and communities. The Company serves customers through a full range of online banking services (including deposits, mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending and credit-card products) and securities brokerage and investment advisory services. The Company also includes a corporate finance business that offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Ally is a Delaware corporation and is registered as a BHC under the BHC Act and an FHC under the GLB Act. Our primary business lines are Dealer Financial Services, which is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance. Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, the activity related to Ally Invest, Ally Lending, and Ally Credit Card, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Ally Bank’s assets and operating results are included within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance segments, as well as Corporate and Other, based on its underlying business activities. As of December 31, 2023, Ally Bank had total assets of $186.1 billion and total nonaffiliate deposits of $154.7 billion. Our long-term strategic objectives are centered around (1) differentiating our company as a relentless ally for the financial well-being of consumer and commercial customers, (2) leveraging our “Do it Right” culture to drive enhanced value for our customers, communities, employees, and stockholders, (3) growing and diversifying our leading automotive, insurance, and digital-bank platforms through increased scale and expanded product solutions to meet customer needs, (4) driving ongoing customer growth and deepening relationships, (5) operating under efficient, disciplined risk management and capital allocation approaches, (6) out-executing our competition and creating differentiated advantages through continuous investment and evolution among our leading experiences, products and brand, and (7) delivering long-term value through sustainable financial results and stockholder returns. Within our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, we are focused on strengthening our network of dealer relationships and pursuing digital distribution channels for our products and services, including through our operation of a direct-lending platform and our work with dealers innovating in digital transactions—all while maintaining an appropriate level of risk appetite. Within our other banking operations, including Mortgage Finance and Corporate Finance, we seek to expand our consumer and commercial banking products and services while providing a high level of customer service. We continue to focus on delivering significant growth and retention in deposit customers and balances while optimizing our cost of funds. At Ally Invest, we seek to augment our securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services to more comprehensively assist our customers in managing their savings and growing their wealth. Ally Credit Card is our scalable, digital-first credit card platform that features leading-edge technology, and a proprietary, analytics-based underwriting model. We believe Ally Credit Card enhances our ability to grow and deepen both new and existing customer relationships. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term “loans” means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term “operating leases” means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle’s residual value. The terms “lend,” “finance,” and “originate” mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases, as applicable. The term “consumer” means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “commercial” means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “partnerships” means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. For further details and information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide, refer to the MD&A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Industry and Competition The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance, mortgage finance, point-of-sale personal lending, consumer credit cards, and deposits), securities brokerage, and investment-advisory services are highly competitive. We directly compete in the automotive financing market with banks, credit unions, captive automotive finance companies, and independent finance companies. Our insurance business also faces significant competition from automotive manufacturers, captive automotive finance companies, insurance carriers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Some of these competitors in automotive financing and insurance, such as captive automotive finance companies, have certain exclusivity privileges with automotive manufacturers whose customers and dealers make up a significant portion of our customer base. In addition, our banking, securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory businesses face intense competition from banks, savings associations, finance companies, credit unions, mutual funds, investment advisers, asset managers, brokerage firms, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage-banking companies, and credit-card companies. Fintech companies also compete with us directly as well as indirectly through partnership with banks and financial-services providers in lending, deposits, securities-brokerage, investment-advisory, and other markets. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some also have significantly greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than Ally. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and customer growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and customer service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will