Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 117 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 118 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 118 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 119 Consolidated Statement of Income 122 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 124 Consolidated Balance Sheet 125 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 127 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 128 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 130 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 215 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 215 Item 9B. Other Information 215 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 215 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 216 Item 11. Executive Compensation 218 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related S t ock holder Matters 218 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 218 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 218 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 219 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 221 Signatures 222 2 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms The following is a list of abbreviations and acronyms that are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Term Definition AC Audit Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ALCO Asset-Liability Committee ALM Asset Liability Management A.M. Best A.M. Best Company, Inc. AMLA Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BF Bornhuetter-Ferguson BHC Bank holding company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended Board Ally Board of Directors BOI Beneficial Ownership Information CD Certificate of deposit CDD Customer Due Diligence Rule CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CECL Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 (and related Accounting Standards Updates), or current expected credit loss CEO Chief Executive Officer CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CIDDO Chief Information, Data and Digital Officer CIDI Covered insured depository institution CISO Chief Information Security Officer CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker COH Corporate overhead COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended CSG Commercial Services Group CSRP Cyber Security Response Plan CTA Corporate Transparency Act CVA Credit valuation adjustment DBRS Morningstar DBRS DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as amended DRR Designated reserve ratio DVA Debit valuation adjustment EAD Exposure at default ECMT Executive Crisis Management Team EGRRCP Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, as amended EIMT Enterprise Incident Management Team ERMC Enterprise Risk Management Committee ETF Exchange-traded fund EVE Economic value of equity 3 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended F&I Finance and insurance FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDI Act Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, as amended FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Fintech Financial-technology FRB Federal Reserve Bank, or Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as the context requires FSR Financial Strength Rating FTP Funds-transfer pricing GAP Guaranteed asset protection GDP Gross domestic product of the United States of America GLB Act Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended GM General Motors Company HPI Housing Price Index HR Human resources HTC Historic tax credit HVAC Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning IB Finance IB Finance Holding Company, LLC ICP Incentive compensation plan ICR Issuer Credit Rating IDI Insured Depository Institution IRA Individual retirement account ISO International Organization for Standards ITC Investment tax credit LCR Liquidity coverage ratio LGD Loss given default LIHTC Low-income housing tax credit LMI Low-to-moderate income LTV Loan-to-value MD&A Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MRM Model risk management MVG Model validation group NADA National Automobile Dealers Association NMTC New market tax credit NYDFS New York Department of Financial Services NYSE New York Stock Exchange OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other comprehensive income OEM Automotive original equipment manufacturer OTC Over-the-counter P&C Property and casualty 4 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition PCA Prompt corrective action PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PD Probability of default PSU Performance Stock Unit or Award RC Risk Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ROU Right-of-use RSU Restricted Stock Unit or Award RV Recreational vehicle RWA Risk-weighted asset S&P Standard & Poor’s Global SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Signature Signature Bank SIPC Securities Investor Protection Corporation SPE Special-purpose entity SRO Self-regulatory organization Stellantis Stellantis N.V. SVB Silicon Valley Bank Tailoring Rules The rules implementing Title IV of the EGRRCP Act TC Technology Committee of the Ally Board of Directors TDR Troubled debt restructuring TILA Truth in Lending Act TLAC Total loss-absorbing capacity TPRM Third party risk management UDAAP Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices UDFI Utah Department of Financial Institutions UPB Unpaid principal balance U.S. Basel III The rules implementing the 2010 Basel III capital framework in the United States as well as related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended from time to time U.S. GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America VIE Variable interest entity VIN Vehicle identification number VMC Vehicle maintenance contract VSC Vehicle service contract WAC Weighted-average coupon wSTWF Weighted short-term wholesale funding 5 Table of Contents Part I Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Item 1. Business Our Business Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, we, us, or our) is a financial-services company with $191.8 billion in assets as of December 31, 2024. The Company comprises the nation’s largest all-digital bank and an industry-leading automotive financing and insurance business, driven by a mission to “Do It Right” and be a relentless ally for customers and communities. The Company serves customers with deposits and securities brokerage and investment advisory services as well as automotive financing and insurance offerings. The Company also includes a seasoned corporate finance business that offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. Ally is a Delaware corporation and is registered as a BHC under the BHC Act and an FHC under the GLB Act. Our primary business lines are Dealer Financial Services, which is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, and Corporate Finance. Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities, the management of our consumer mortgage portfolio, the activity related to Ally Invest, Ally Lending, and Ally Credit Card, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Consumer mortgage originations will cease during the second quarter of 2025, which will result in a gradual run-off of our remaining consumer mortgage loan portfolio. Additionally, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest our credit card business. The transaction is expected to close during the second quarter of 2025. During the first quarter of 2024, we closed the sale of Ally Lending. Refer to Note 2 and Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ally Bank’s assets and operating results are included within our Automotive Finance, and Corporate Finance segments, as well as Corporate and Other, based on its underlying business activities. As of December 31, 2024, Ally Bank had total assets of $181.4 billion and total nonaffiliate deposits of $151.6 billion. In January of 2025, we announced strategic actions that refine our focus to our core businesses that have durable and diversified revenue streams, attractive returns, and relevant scale. Our long-term strategic objectives are centered around (1) investing in our market-leading franchises and continuing to deliver a differentiated value proposition across Dealer Financial Services, Corporate Finance, and Deposits, (2) ensuring our culture remains aligned with relentless focus on customers, communities, employees, and shareholders, (3) accepting risks that we can understand and effectively manage, (4) maintaining one of the most relevant and creatively disruptive brands in banking, (5) advancing technology that powers dealer and consumer centric products and services, and (6) delivering long-term value through sustainable financial results and shareholder returns. Within our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, we are focused on strengthening our network of dealer relationships and increasing engagement. We leverage our pricing power and sophisticated underwriting for long-term profitability while maintaining an appropriate level of risk appetite. Within Corporate Finance, we seek to expand our relationships with private equity sponsors and asset managers. Within our consumer and commercial banking products and services, we are focused on investing in our deposits platform by optimizing the portfolio. At Ally Invest, we seek to augment our securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services to more comprehensively assist our customers in managing their savings and growing their wealth. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term “loans” means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term “operating leases” means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle’s residual value. The terms “lend,” “finance,” and “originate” mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases, as applicable. The term “consumer” means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “commercial” means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “partnerships” means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. For further details and information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide, refer to the MD&A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Industry and Competition The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance, and deposits), securities brokerage, and investment-advisory services are highly competitive. We directly compete in the automotive financing market with banks, credit unions, captive automotive finance companies, and independent finance companies. Our insurance business also faces significant competition from automotive manufacturers, captive automotive finance companies, insurance carriers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Some of these competitors in automotive financing and insurance, such as captive automotive finance companies, have certain exclusivity privileges with automotive manufacturers whose customers and dealers make up a significant portion of our customer base. In addition, our banking, securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory businesses face intense competition from banks, savings associations, finance companies, credit unions, mutual funds, investment advisers, asset managers, brokerage firms, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage-banking companies, and credit-card companies. Fintech companies also compete with us directly as well as indirectly through partnership with banks and financial-services providers in lending, deposits, securities-brokerage, investment-advisory, and other markets. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some also have significantly greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than Ally. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and customer growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and customer service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. Regulation and Supervision We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks in the United States—at federal, state, and local levels—that affect the products and services that we may offer and the manner in which we may offer them, the risks that we may take, the ways in which we may operate, and the corporate and financial actions that we may take. We also have limited businesses and operations in Canada and other countries that must comply with expansive legal frameworks there as well. We are also subject to direct supervision and periodic examinations