Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 109 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 110 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 110 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 111 Consolidated Statement of Income 114 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive ( Loss) Income 116 Consolidated Balance Sheet 117 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 119 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 120 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 122 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 202 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 202 Item 9B. Other Information 202 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 202 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 203 Item 11. Executive Compensation 205 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 205 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 205 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 205 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 206 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 208 Signatures 209 2 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms The following is a list of abbreviations and acronyms that are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Term Definition AC Audit Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ALCO Asset-Liability Committee ALM Asset Liability Management A.M. Best A.M. Best Company, Inc. AMLA Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update Aurora Aurora Acquisition Corp. Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BF Bornhuetter-Ferguson BHC Bank holding company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended BMC Better Mortgage Company Board Ally Board of Directors CD Certificate of deposit CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CECL Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 (and related Accounting Standards Updates), or current expected credit loss CEO Chief executive officer CFE Cities for Financial Empowerment CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission COH Corporate overhead COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended CSG Commercial Services Group CVA Credit valuation adjustment DE&I Diversity, equity, and inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as amended DRR Designated reserve ratio DVA Debit valuation adjustment EAD Exposure at default EGRRCP Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, as amended ERG Employee resource group ERMC Enterprise Risk Management Committee ESG Environmental, social, and governance ETF Exchange-traded fund Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended F&I Finance and insurance Fair Square Fair Square Financial Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDI Act Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, as amended 3 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition FHC Financial holding company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Fintech Financial-technology FRB Federal Reserve Bank, or Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as the context requires FSR Financial Strength Rating FTP Funds-transfer pricing GAP Guaranteed asset protection GDP Gross domestic product of the United States of America GLB Act Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended GM General Motors Company HR Human resources IB Finance IB Finance Holding Company, LLC ICP Incentive compensation plan ICR Issuer Credit Rating IRA Individual retirement account LCR Liquidity coverage ratio LGD Loss given default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Act Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act LIHTC Low-income housing tax credit LMI Low-to-moderate income LTV Loan-to-value MD&A Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations NFA National Futures Association NYDFS New York Department of Financial Services NYSE New York Stock Exchange OTC Over-the-counter P&C Property and casualty PCA Prompt corrective action PCD Purchased credit deteriorated PD Probability of default PSU Performance Stock Unit or Award RC Risk Committee of the Ally Board of Directors ROU Right-of-use RSU Restricted Stock Unit or Award RV Recreational vehicle RWA Risk-weighted asset SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Series 2 TRUPS 8.125% Fixed Rate/Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities, Series 2 of GMAC Capital Trust I SIPC Securities Investor Protection Corporation SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SPE Special-purpose entity SRO Self-regulatory organization Stellantis Stellantis N.V. 4 Table of Contents Index of Defined Terms Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Term Definition Tailoring Rules The rules implementing Title IV of the EGRRCP Act TDR Troubled debt restructuring UDAAP Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices UDFI Utah Department of Financial Institutions UPB Unpaid principal balance U.S. Basel III The rules implementing the 2010 Basel III capital framework in the United States as well as related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended from time to time U.S. GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America VIE Variable interest entity VMC Vehicle maintenance contract VSC Vehicle service contract WAC Weighted-average coupon wSTWF Weighted short-term wholesale funding 5 Table of Contents Part I Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Item 1. Business Our Business Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, we, us, or our) is a financial-services company with $191.8 billion in assets as of December 31, 2022. The Company comprises the nation’s largest all-digital bank and an industry-leading automotive financing and insurance business, driven by a mission to “Do It Right” and be a relentless ally for customers and communities. The Company serves customers through a full range of online banking services (including deposits, mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending and credit-card products) and securities brokerage and investment advisory services. The Company also includes a corporate finance business that offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. Ally is a Delaware corporation and is registered as a BHC under the BHC Act and an FHC under the GLB Act. Our primary business lines are Dealer Financial Services, which is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance. Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, the activity related to Ally Invest and Ally Lending, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Beginning in December 2021 with the acquisition of Fair Square, which we rebranded as Ally Credit Card, financial information for our credit-card business is included within Corporate and Other. Ally Bank’s assets and operating results are included within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance segments, as well as Corporate and Other, based on its underlying business activities. As of December 31, 2022, Ally Bank had total assets of $181.9 billion and total nonaffiliate deposits of $152.3 billion. Our long-term strategic objectives are centered around (1) differentiating our company as a relentless ally for financial well-being for consumer and commercial customers, (2) leveraging our “Do it Right” culture to drive enhanced value for our customers, communities, employees, and stockholders, (3) growing and diversifying our leading auto, insurance, and digital-bank platforms through increased scale and expanded product solutions to meet customer needs, (4) driving ongoing customer growth and relationship deepening, (5) operating under efficient, disciplined risk management and capital allocation approaches, (6) out-executing our competition and creating differentiated advantages through continuous investment and evolution among our leading experiences, products and brand, and (7) delivering long-term value through sustainable financial results and stockholder returns. Within our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, we are focused on strengthening our network of dealer relationships and pursuing digital distribution channels for our products and services, including through our operation of a direct-lending platform and our work with dealers innovating in digital transactions—all while maintaining an appropriate level of risk appetite. Within our other banking operations, including Mortgage Finance and Corporate Finance, we seek to expand our consumer and commercial banking products and services while providing a high level of customer service. We continue to focus on delivering significant growth and retention in deposit customers and balances while optimizing our cost of funds. Ally Lending primarily serves medical and home improvement service providers by enabling promotional and fixed rate installment-loan products through a digital application process at point-of-sale. At Ally Invest, we seek to augment our securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services to more comprehensively assist our customers in managing their savings and wealth. Additionally, we acquired Fair Square in December 2021, which provides us with a scalable, digital-first credit card platform, and advances our evolution as a leading digital consumer bank. Ally Credit Card features leading-edge technology, and a proprietary, analytics-based underwriting model. We believe the addition of credit card to our suite of products enhances our ability to grow and deepen both new and existing customer relationships. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term “loans” means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term “operating leases” means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle’s residual value. The terms “lend,” “finance,” and “originate” mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases, as applicable. The term “consumer” means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “commercial” means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term “partnerships” means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. For further details and information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide, refer to the MD&A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Ally Financial Inc. • Form 10-K Industry and Competition The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance, mortgage finance, point-of-sale personal lending, consumer credit cards, and deposits), securities brokerage, and investment-advisory services are highly competitive. We directly compete in the automotive financing market with banks, credit unions, captive automotive finance companies, and independent finance companies. Our insurance business also faces significant competition from automotive manufacturers, captive automotive finance companies, insurance carriers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Some of these competitors in automotive financing and insurance, such as captive automotive finance companies, have certain exclusivity privileges with automotive manufacturers whose customers and dealers make up a significant portion of our customer base. In addition, our banking, securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory businesses face intense competition from banks, savings associations, finance companies, credit unions, mutual funds, investment advisers, asset managers, brokerage firms, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage-banking companies, and credit-card companies. Fintech companies also compete with us directly as well as indirectly through partnership with banks and financial-services providers in lending, deposits, securities-brokerage, investment-advisory, and other markets. Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some also have significantly greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than Ally. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and customer growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and customer service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. Regulation and Supervision We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks in the United States—at federal, state, and local levels—that affect the products and services 