Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Environment”. Technology/Systems We leverage information and technology to help achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our brand partners’ and customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development and use of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems, such as cloud technology, to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development and scaling of new and diversified products. We believe the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and security, and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements. As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or use third-party service providers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. Specifically, we rely on third-parties to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure, these relationships include (but are not limited to): Microsoft and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for our cloud infrastructure and Fiserv for credit card processing services. We are committed to safeguarding our customers’ and our own information and technology, implementing backup and recovery systems, and generally require the same of our third-party service providers. We take measures that mitigate against known attacks and use internal and external resources to scan for vulnerabilities in platforms, systems, and applications necessary for delivering our products and services. For a discussion of the risks associated with our use of technology systems, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the heading “Cybersecurity, Technology and Vendor Risks”. Disaster and Contingency Planning We operate, either internally or through third-party service providers, multiple data processing centers to store and otherwise process our customer transaction data. Given the significant amount of data that we or our third-party service providers manage, much of which is real-time data to support our partners’ commerce initiatives, we have established redundant capabilities for our data centers. We have a number of safeguards in place that are designed to protect us from data-related risks and in the event of a disaster, to restore our data centers’ systems. For additional information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risk Management – Operational Risk”. Protection of Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information and technology used in our business. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite the efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. We have a number of domestic and foreign patents and pending patent applications. We pursue registration and protection of our trademarks primarily in the United States; although, we also have either registered trademarks or applications pending for certain marks in other countries. No individual patent or license is material to us or our business. 8 Tabl e of Contents Competition The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, continuously changing, highly innovative, and subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We compete with a wide range of businesses, including major financial institutions and financial technology firms, or fintechs. Some of our current and potential competitors may be larger than we are, have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, a dominant or more secure position, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, or offer products and services that we do not offer. Other competitors are smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with innovative and disruptive technologies, emerging competitors, business alliances, shifting consumer habits and user needs, price sensitivity on the part of merchants and consumers, and frequent introductions of new products and services. The consumer credit and payments industry is highly competitive and we face an increasingly dynamic industry as emerging technologies enter the marketplace. In competing to acquire and retain the business of brand partners and customers, our primary competition is with other financial institutions whose marketing focus has been on developing credit card programs with attractive value propositions and consequentially large revolving balances. These competitors further drive their businesses by cross-selling their other financial products to their cardholders. We also compete for brand partners on the basis of a number of factors, including program financial and other terms, underwriting standards and capabilities, marketing expertise, service levels, the breadth of our product and service offerings, digital, technological and integration capabilities, brand recognition and reputation. We focus on retailers and other brand partners that understand the competitive advantage of building a loyal customer base. We have a long history of effectively analyzing transaction data we obtain through partner loyalty programs and managing our lending programs, including customer specific transaction data and overall consumer spending patterns, to develop and implement successful marketing strategies for our partners. As a form of payment, our customers have numerous consumer credit and other payment options available to them, and our products compete with cash, checks, electronic bank transfers, debit cards, general purpose credit cards (including Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover Card), various forms of consumer installment loans and split-pay products, other private label card brands, prepaid cards, digital wallets and mobile payment solutions, and other tools that simplify and personalize shopping experiences for consumers and merchants. Among other factors, our products compete with these other forms of payment on the basis of interest rates and fees, credit limits, reward programs and other product features. As the payments industry continues to evolve, in the future we expect increasing competition with emerging payment technologies from fintechs and payment networks. Moreover, some of our competitors, including new and emerging competitors in the digital and mobile payments space, are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. In our retail deposits business, we have acquisition and servicing capabilities similar to other direct-banking competitors. We compete for deposits with traditional banks, and in seeking to grow our Bread Savings TM platform, we compete with other banks that have direct-banking models similar to ours. Competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to quickly and easily deposit and withdraw funds, and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors. Supervision and Regulation We operate primarily through our insured depository institution subsidiaries, Comenity Bank (CB) and Comenity Capital Bank (CCB), which, as noted above, together are referred to herein as the “Banks”. Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the operations of the Banks. This regulatory framework is intended to protect individual consumers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the U.S. banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors. Set forth below is a summary of the significant laws and regulations applicable to each of CB and CCB. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Such statutes, regulations, and policies are subject to ongoing review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in any of the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to CB and/or CCB, or in the leadership or direction of our regulators, could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition. Further, the scope of regulation and the intensity of supervision will likely remain high in the current regulatory environment. 9 Tabl e of Contents CB is a Delaware-chartered bank operating as a credit card bank under a Competitive Equality Banking Act (CEBA) exemption from the definition of “bank” under the Bank Holding Company Act (BHC Act). To maintain its status as a CEBA credit card bank, CB must continue to comply with the following requirements: • engage only in credit card operations; • do not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties; • do not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its extensions of credit; • maintain only one office that accepts deposits; and • do not engage in the business of making commercial loans (except credit card loans to certain small businesses). CB is subject to prudential regulation, supervision and examination by the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner, as its chartering authority, and the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. CB’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with applicable law and FDIC regulations. CB is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. CCB is a Utah-chartered industrial bank. As an industrial bank, CCB is exempt from the definition of “bank” under the BHC Act. CCB is subject to prudential regulation, supervision and examination by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, as its chartering authority, and the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. CCB’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with applicable law and FDIC regulations. CCB is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) promulgates regulations for the federal consumer financial protection laws and supervises and examines large banks (those with more than $10 billion of total assets) with respect to those laws. Banks in a multi-bank organization, such as CB and CCB, are subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws if at least one bank reports total assets over $10 billion for four consecutive quarters. While the Banks were subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws between 2016 and 2021, this reverted to the FDIC in 2022. However, CCB’s total assets then exceeded $10 billion for four consecutive quarters as of September 30, 2022, and both Banks are now again subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority that has impacted, and is expected to continue impacting, the Banks’ operations, including with respect to credit card late fees and other amounts that we may charge. For example, the CFPB’s rulemaking authority may allow it to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators including regulations issued under the Truth in Lending Act by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). In February 2023, the CFPB published a proposed rule with request for public comment that would: (i) decrease the safe harbor dollar amount for credit card late fees to $8 and eliminate a higher safe harbor dollar amount for subsequent late payments; (ii) eliminate the annual inflation adjustments that currently exist for the late fee safe harbor dollar amounts; and (iii) require that late fees not exceed 25% of the consumer’s required minimum payment. The “safe harbor” dollar amounts referenced in the CFPB’s proposed rulemaking refer to the amounts that credit card issuers may charge as late fees under the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (CARD Act). Under the CARD Act, as implemented, these safe harbor amounts have been subject to annual adjustment based on changes in the consumer price index, and the safe harbor amounts are currently set at $30 for an initial late fee and $41 for subsequent late fees in one of the next six billing cycles. Accordingly, the proposed $8 safe harbor amount on late fees (and proposed elimination of the annual inflation-based adjustment thereto) would represent a significant decrease from the current safe harbor amounts. In addition, while not a part of the proposed rule, the CFPB sought comment on whether late fees should be prohibited if the applicable payment is made within 15 days of the due date and whether, as a condition to utilizing the safe harbor, credit card issuers should be required to offer automatic payment options and/or provide certain notifications of upcoming payment due dates. In anticipation of the CFPB publishing its final rule, we are proactively implementing our plans intended to address the potential changes in regulation, which if left unmitigated would have a significant impact on our business. We are engaged with our brand partners regarding necessary mitigating actions and expect to implement many of these actions prior to the final rule becoming effective. Additionally, we continue to strategically diversify our business to be less reliant on late fees with the growth of our co-brand and proprietary products and our improved credit profile. We expect the rule to be challenged in court. Additional discussion regarding the CFPB’s proposed rulemaking can be found in “Risk Factors —Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks ” and “Management’s Discussion & Analysis — Business Environment” below. 10 Tabl e of Contents More generally, the CFPB’s ability to r