Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the heading “Cybersecurity, Technology and Vendor Risks”. Disaster and Contingency Planning We operate, either internally or through third-party service providers, multiple data processing centers to store and otherwise process our customer transaction data. Given the significant amount of data that we or our third-party service providers manage, much of which is real-time data to support our partners’ commerce initiatives, we have established redundant capabilities for our data centers. We have a number of safeguards in place that are designed to protect us from data-related risks and in the event of a disaster, to restore our data centers’ systems. For additional information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risk Management – Operational Risk”. 8 Tabl e of Contents Protection of Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets (and corresponding laws relating to such intellectual property), confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other similar measures to protect our technology and proprietary information used in our business. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third-party business partners to protect our proprietary information. We control access to and distribution of our technology and its related documentation and other proprietary information through licenses and contractual restrictions. Despite our efforts to protect our technology and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our technology that we consider proprietary, and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. We have a number of domestic and foreign patents and pending patent applications. We pursue protection of our trademarks through registration, primarily in the United States, although we also have either registered trademarks or applications pending for certain marks in other countries. We maintain a trade secret program for certain proprietary intellectual property for which we choose not to seek patent or copyright protection. No individual patent, copyright, or trademark is material to us or our business. Competition The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, continuously changing, highly innovative, and subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We compete with a wide range of businesses, including major financial institutions and financial technology firms, or fintechs. Some of our current and potential competitors may be larger than we are, have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, a dominant or more secure position, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, or offer products and services that we do not offer. Other competitors may be smaller or younger companies that are more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with innovative and disruptive technologies, emerging competitors, business alliances, shifting consumer habits and user needs, price sensitivity on the part of merchants and consumers, and frequent introductions of new products and services. The consumer credit and payments industry is highly competitive and we face an increasingly dynamic industry as emerging technologies enter the marketplace. In competing to acquire and retain the business of brand partners and customers, our primary competition is with other financial institutions whose marketing focus has been on developing credit card programs with attractive value propositions, high spend and consequentially large revolving balances. These competitors further drive their businesses by cross-selling their other financial products to their cardholders. We also compete for brand partners on the basis of a number of factors, including program financial and other terms, underwriting standards and capabilities, marketing expertise, service levels, the breadth of our product and service offerings, digital, technological and integration capabilities, brand recognition and reputation. We focus on retailers and other brand partners that understand the competitive advantage of building a loyal customer base. We have a long history of effectively analyzing transaction data we obtain through partner loyalty programs and managing our lending programs, including customer specific transaction data and overall consumer spending patterns, to develop and implement successful marketing strategies for our partners. As a form of payment, our customers have numerous consumer credit and other payment options available to them, and our products compete with cash, checks, electronic bank transfers, debit cards, general purpose credit cards (including those on the Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover Card networks), various forms of consumer installment loans and split-pay products, other private label credit card brands, prepaid cards, digital wallets and mobile payment solutions, and other tools that simplify and personalize shopping experiences for consumers and merchants. Among other factors, our products compete with these other forms of payment on the basis of interest rates and fees, credit limits, reward programs and other product features. As the payments industry continues to evolve, in the future we expect increasing competition with emerging payment technologies from fintechs and payment networks. Moreover, some of our competitors, including new and emerging competitors in the digital and mobile payments space, are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. In our retail deposits business, we have acquisition and servicing capabilities similar to other direct-banking competitors. We compete for deposits with traditional banks, and in seeking to grow our Bread Savings platform, we compete with other banks that have direct-banking models similar to ours. Competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to quickly and easily deposit and withdraw funds, and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors. 9 Tabl e of Contents Supervision and Regulation We operate primarily through our insured depository institution subsidiaries, Comenity Bank (CB) and Comenity Capital Bank (CCB), which, as noted above, together are referred to herein as the “Banks”. Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the operations of the Banks. This regulatory framework is intended to protect individual consumers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC and the U.S. banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors. Set forth below is a summary of the significant laws and regulations applicable to each of CB and CCB. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and supervisory policies that are described. Such statutes, regulations, and supervisory policies are subject to ongoing review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in any of the statutes, regulations, or supervisory policies applicable to CB and/or CCB, or in the leadership or direction of our regulators, could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition. Further, while the new Presidential Administration and the congressional majorities in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives support reducing the regulatory burden, the scope of regulation and the intensity of supervision will likely remain uncertain in the current regulatory and political environments. CB is a Delaware-chartered bank operating as a credit card bank under a Competitive Equality Banking Act (CEBA) exemption from the definition of “bank” under the Bank Holding Company Act (BHC Act). To maintain its status as a CEBA credit card bank, CB must continue to comply with the following requirements: • engage only in credit card operations; • do not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties; • do not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its extensions of credit; • maintain only one office that accepts deposits; and • do not engage in the business of making commercial loans (except credit card loans to certain small businesses). CB is subject to prudential regulation, supervision and examination by the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner, as its chartering authority, and the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. CB’s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with applicable law and FDIC regulations. CB is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. CCB is a Utah-chartered industrial bank. As an industrial bank, CCB is exempt from the definition of “bank” under the BHC Act. CCB is subject to prudential regulation, supervision and examination by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI), as its chartering authority, and the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. CCB’s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with applicable law and FDIC regulations. CCB is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) promulgates regulations for the federal consumer financial protection laws and supervises and examines large banks (those with more than $10 billion of total assets) with respect to those laws. Banks in a multi-bank organization, such as CB and CCB, are subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws if at least one bank reports total assets over $10 billion for four consecutive quarters. While the Banks were subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws between 2016 and 2021, this reverted to the FDIC in 2022. However, CCB’s total assets then exceeded $10 billion for four consecutive quarters as of September 30, 2022, and both Banks are now again subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to federal consumer protection laws. Regulation of Bread Financial Holdings, Inc. Because neither CB nor CCB is considered a “bank” within the meaning of the BHC Act, the Parent Company is not a bank holding company (BHC) subject to regulation thereunder. If any of our entities became subject to regulation as a BHC, among other things, BFH and our non-bank subsidiaries would be subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) and our operations would be limited to activities that are closely related to banking. If the Parent Company were to qualify as a financial holding company (FHC), operations could include those activities that are financial in nature. However, under Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Act, any company that directly or indirectly controls an insured depository institution is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary institution and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. This 10 Tabl e of Contents doctrine is commonly known as the “Source of Strength” doctrine. As such a company, this means that BFH must stand ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to the Banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and should maintain the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional funding resources to support the Banks. This support may be required at times when BFH might otherwise have determined not to provide it or when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of BFH or its stockholders or creditors. BFH’s failure to meet its obligation to serve as a source of strength to the Banks may be considered an unsafe and unsound banking practice. In that regard, although the Parent Company is not a BHC, we seek to maintain capital levels and ratios in excess of the minimums required for bank holding companies. Separately, under Utah state law the Parent Company is subject to examination by the UDFI. Under that statutory authority, the UDFI subjects the Parent Company to periodic inspections to determine the degree to which it serves as source of financial and managerial strength to CCB, and to understand the business activities conducted outside CCB. Regulation of the Banks Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern, among other things, the scope of a bank’s business, the investments a bank may make, the reserves against deposits a bank must maintain, the loans a bank makes and collateral it takes, the activities of a bank with respect to mergers and acquisitions, management practices, and numerous other aspects of our operations. Examinations by regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. Following examinations by its bank regulators, the Banks receive supervisory findings and ultimately are assigned supervisory ratings. Examination reports, supervisory ratings, and other actions under this supervisory framework, which are considered confidential supervisory information, can impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of our operations, possibly to a significant degree. Regulatory Capital Requirements The Banks are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements under the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standardized approach for U.S. banking organizations adopted by the FDIC. These rules implement the Basel III international regulatory capital standards in the United States, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FDIC may determine that a bank, based on size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Under the Basel III capital rules, the Banks’ assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine CB’s and CCB’s risk-weighted assets, which then are used to determine the minimum capital that CB and CCB should keep as reserves to reduce the risk of insolvency. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for the Banks: • Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Risk-