Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risk Management – Operational Risk.” ​ Protection of Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights ​ We rely on a combination of patents, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information and technology used in our business. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite the efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. We have a number of domestic and foreign patents and pending patent applications. We pursue registration and protection of our trademarks primarily in the United States, although we also have either registered trademarks or applications pending for certain marks in other countries. No individual patent or license is material to us or our business. ​ Competition ​ The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, continuously changing, highly innovative, and subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We compete with a wide range of businesses, including financial institutions, fintechs and payment networks. Some of our current and potential competitors may be larger than we are, have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, a dominant or more secure position, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, or offer products and services that we do not offer. Other competitors are smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with innovative and disruptive technologies, emerging competitors, business alliances, shifting consumer habits and user needs, price sensitivity on the part of merchants and consumers, and frequent introductions of new products and services. ​ In competing to acquire and retain the business of brand partners, our primary competition is with other financial institutions whose marketing focus has been on developing credit card programs with large revolving balances. These competitors further drive their businesses by cross-selling their other financial products to their cardholders. We also compete for partners on the basis of a number of factors, including program financial and other terms, underwriting 4 Table of Contents standards, marketing expertise, service levels, the breadth of our product and service offerings, digital, technological and integration capabilities, brand recognition and reputation. Our focus is on retailers and other brand partners that understand the competitive advantage of developing loyal customers. As a result, we focus on analyzing transaction data we obtain through partner loyalty programs and managing our lending programs, including customer specific transaction data and overall consumer spending patterns, to develop and implement successful marketing strategies for our partners. The consumer credit and payments industry is highly competitive and we face an increasingly dynamic industry as emerging technologies enter the marketplace. As a form of payment, our products compete with cash, checks, electronic bank transfers, debit cards, general purpose credit cards (including Visa and MasterCard, American Express and Discover Card), various forms of consumer installment loans and split-pay products, other private label card brands, prepaid cards, digital wallets and mobile payment solutions, and other tools that simplify and personalize shopping experiences for consumers and merchants. As the payments industry continues to evolve, in the future we expect increasing competition with emerging payment technologies from financial technology firms and payment networks. Moreover, some of our competitors, including new and emerging competitors in the digital and mobile payments space, are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. ​ Supervision and Regulation ​ We operate primarily through our insured depository institution subsidiaries, Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, which together are referred to herein as the “Banks.” Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the operations of the Banks. This regulatory framework is intended to protect individual consumers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the U.S. banking system as a whole rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. Set forth below is a summary of the significant laws and regulations applicable to each of Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Such statutes, regulations, and policies are subject to ongoing review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in any of the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, or in the leadership or direction of our regulators, could have a material effect on the results of Alliance Data. Further, the scope of regulation and the intensity of supervision will likely remain higher under the Biden Administration. ​ Comenity Bank is a Delaware-chartered bank operating as a credit card bank under Competitive Equality Banking Act (CEBA) exemptions in the Bank Holding Company Act (BHC Act). To maintain its status as a CEBA credit card bank, Comenity Bank must continue to comply with the following requirements: ​ ● engage only in credit card operations; ● do not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties; ● do not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its extensions of credit; ● maintain only one office that accepts deposits; and ● do not engage in the business of making commercial loans (except small business loans). ​ Comenity Bank is subject to prudential regulation, supervision and examination by the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner, as its chartering authority, and the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. Comenity Bank’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with applicable law and FDIC regulations. Comenity Bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. ​ Comenity Capital Bank is a Utah-chartered industrial bank. As an industrial bank, Comenity Capital Bank is exempt from the definition of “bank” under the BHC Act. Comenity Capital Bank is subject to prudential regulation, supervision and examination by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, as its chartering authority, and the FDIC as its primary federal regulator. Comenity Capital Bank’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with applicable law and FDIC regulations. Comenity Capital Bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. ​ The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) promulgates regulations for the federal consumer financial protection laws. Banks in a multi-bank organization, such Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, are subject to 5 Table of Contents supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws if at least one bank reports total assets over $10 billion for four consecutive quarters. While Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank were previously subject to such supervision and examination by the CFPB, neither have reported total assets over $10 billion for the last consecutive four quarters and both are now subject to supervision and examination with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws by the FDIC. If and when either Comenity Bank or Comenity Capital Bank report total assets over $10 billion for four consecutive quarters, such supervision and examination will revert back to the CFPB. ​ Regulation of Alliance Data ​ Because neither Comenity Bank nor Comenity Capital Bank is considered a “bank” within the meaning of the BHC Act, Alliance Data is not a bank holding company subject to regulation thereunder. If any of our entities became subject to regulation as a bank holding company, among other things, Alliance Data and its nonbank subsidiaries would be subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) and our operations would be limited to certain activities that are closely related to banking or financial services in nature. ​ Regulation of the Banks ​ Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern, among other things, the scope of a bank’s business, the investments a bank may make, the reserves against deposits a bank must maintain, the loans a bank makes and collateral it takes, the activities of a bank with respect to mergers and acquisitions, management practices, and numerous other aspects of banking operations. ​ Source of Strength Doctrine ​ Under Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act), any company that directly or indirectly controls an insured depository institution is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary institution and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. This doctrine is commonly known as the "source of strength" doctrine. As such a company, this means that Alliance Data must stand ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to the Banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and should maintain the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting the Banks. This support may be required at times when Alliance Data might otherwise determine not to provide it or when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of Alliance Data or its stockholders or creditors. Alliance Data’s failure to meet its obligation to serve as a source of strength to the Banks would generally be considered to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. ​ Regulatory Capital Requirements ​ The Banks are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements under the U.S. Basel III capital rules adopted by the FDIC. These rules implement the Basel III international regulatory capital standards in the United States, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FDIC may determine that a bank, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. ​ Under the U.S. Basel III capital rules, the Banks’ assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions’ risk-weighted assets, which then are used to determine the minimum capital that the Banks should keep as a reserve to reduce the risk of insolvency. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for the Banks: ● Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Risk-Based Capital Ratio, which is the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common stockholders’ equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. ● Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, which is the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock, and certain qualifying capital instruments. 6 Table of Contents ● Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, which is the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying Allowance for credit losses. ● Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, which is the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets (net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions). ​ Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on the Banks’ ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications. ​ The U.S. Basel III capital rules require a minimum CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0%, and a minimum Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 8.0%. In addition to meeting the minimum capital requirements, under the U.S. Basel III capital rules, the Banks must also maintain the required 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management. The Capital Conservation Buffer is calculated as a ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and it effectively increases the required minimum risk-based capital ratios. As a result, the Banks must maintain a CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of at least 7%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of at least 8.5% and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of at least 10.5% to avoid being subject to restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to its executive management. The Tier 1 Leverage Ratio is not impacted by the Capital Conservation Buffer, and a bank may be considered well-capitalized while remaining out of compliance with the Capital Conservation Buffer. The required minimum Tier 1 Leverage Ratio for all banks and bank holding companies is 4%. ​ To be well-capitalized, the Banks must maintain the following capital ratios: ● CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.5% or greater; ● Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 8.0% or greater; ● Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater; and ● Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of 5.0% or greater. ​ At December 31, 2021, the Banks’ regulatory capital ratios were above the well-capitalized standards and met the Capital Conservation Buffer. The Banks seek to maintain capital levels and ratios in excess of the minimum regulatory requirements inclusive of the 2.