Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 47 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 47 Item 2. Properties 48 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 49 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 49 PART II 50 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 50 Item 6. [Reserved] 52 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 53 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 78 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 140 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 140 Item 9B. Other Information 142 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 142 PART III 142 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 142 Item 11. Executive Compensation 142 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 142 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 143 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 143 PART IV 144 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 144 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 144 Signatures 145 Exhibit Index 147 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Glossary The following is a list of common acronyms and terms LendingClub Corporation regularly uses in its financial reporting: ACL Allowance for Credit Losses (includes both the allowance for loan and lease losses, allowance for securities available for sale and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments) AFS Available for Sale ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Annual Report Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 ASU Accounting Standards Update AUM Assets Under Management (outstanding balances of Loan Originations serviced by the Company including loans sold to investors as well as loans held for investment and held for sale by the Company) Balance Sheet Consolidated Balance Sheets CECL Current Expected Credit Losses (Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments) CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 Capital Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the Basel III capital framework DCF Discounted Cash Flow EPS Earnings Per Share Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FRB or Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and, as applicable, Federal Reserve Bank(s) GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America HFI Loans which are retained by the Company and held for investment HFS Held for sale loans expected to be sold to investors, including Marketplace Loans Income Statement Consolidated Statements of Income LC Bank or LendingClub Bank LendingClub Bank, National Association LendingClub, LC, the Company, we, us, or our LendingClub Corporation and its subsidiaries Loan Originations Unsecured personal loans and auto refinance loans originated by the Company or facilitated by third-party issuing banks Marketplace Loans Loan Originations designated as HFS and subsequently sold to investors N/M Not meaningful Parent LendingClub Corporation (the Parent Company of LendingClub Bank, National Association and other subsidiaries) PPNR or Pre-Provision Net Revenue PPNR, or Pre-Provision Net Revenue, is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting the provision for credit losses and income tax benefit/expense from net income. SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Structured Program transactions Asset-backed securitization transactions where certain accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers have the opportunity to invest in securities backed by a pool of unsecured personal whole loans. 1 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the Basel III capital framework. Tier 1 Leverage Ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by quarterly adjusted average assets as defined under the Basel III capital framework. Total Capital Ratio Total capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and allowance for credit losses and qualifying subordinated debt that qualifies as Tier 2 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the Basel III capital framework. Unsecured personal loans Unsecured personal loans originated on the Company’s platforms, including an online direct to consumer platform and a platform connected with a network of education and patient finance providers. VIE Variable Interest Entity 2 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Except as the context requires otherwise, as used herein, “LendingClub,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our,” refer to LendingClub Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and, where appropriate, its consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), including LendingClub Bank, National Association (LC Bank), and various entities established to facilitate loan sale transactions under LendingClub’s Structured Program. Forward-looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (Annual Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include, without limitation, statements regarding borrowers, credit scoring, our strategy, future operations, expected losses, future financial position, future revenue, projected costs, prospects, plans, objectives of management, expected market growth and the impact on our business. You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “appear,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “intend,” “may,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “strategy,” “target,” “will,” “would,” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about: • The impact of, and our ability to successfully navigate, the current interest rate and economic climate; • whether and when we become subject to supervision and enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; • our ability to sustain the business under adverse circumstances; • our ability to attract and retain new members, to expand our product offerings and services, to improve revenue and generate recurring earnings, and to increase resiliency; • our compliance, and that of third-party partners or providers, with applicable local, state and federal laws, regulations and regulatory developments or court decisions affecting our business; • the effects of natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war or terrorism and other external events on our customers and business, including the Ukrainian-Russian and Gaza Strip conflicts; • the impact of changes in laws or the regulatory or supervisory environment, including as a result of legislation, regulation, policies, legal challenges to agency regulations and interpretations or changes in government officials or other personnel; • the impact of changes in monetary, fiscal, or trade laws or policies; • the impact of accounting standards or policies, including the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) standard; • the results of examinations of us by regulatory authorities and the possibility that any such regulatory authority may, among other things, require us to limit our business activities, increase our allowance for loan losses, increase our capital levels, or affect our ability to borrow funds or maintain or increase deposits; • our ability, and that of third-party partners or providers, to maintain an enterprise risk management framework that is effective in mitigating risk; • our ability to effectively manage capital or liquidity to support our evolving business or operational needs, while remaining compliant with regulatory or supervisory requirements and appropriate risk management standards; • our ability to attract and retain loan borrowers; • our ability to develop and maintain our deposit base or other low-cost funding sources necessary to fund our activities; • the impact of changes in consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits; • the impact of the continuation of, or changes in, the interest rate environment; • our expectations on the interplay among origination volume, underwriting standards and interest rates; • the ability and willingness of borrowers to repay loans; • our belief that certain loans and leases in our commercial loan portfolio will be fully repaid in accordance with the contractual loan terms; • our ability to maintain investor confidence in the operation of our platform; 3 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION • our ability to retain existing sources and secure new or additional sources of investor commitments for our platform; • the performance of our loan products and expected rates of return for investors; • platform volume, pricing and balance; • the effectiveness of our platform’s credit decisioning and scoring models; • our ability to innovate and the adoption and success of new products and services; • the adequacy of our corporate governance, risk management framework and compliance programs; • the impact of, and our ability to resolve, pending litigation and governmental inquiries and investigations; • the use of our own capital to purchase loans and the impact of holding loans on and our ability to sell loans off our balance sheet; • our intention not to sell our available for sale (AFS) investment portfolio; • our financial condition and performance, including the impact that management’s estimates have on our financial performance; • our ability, and that of third-party partners and providers, to maintain service and quality expectations; • the inputs used in the fair value measurement of our financial instruments; • our estimate of our interest rate sensitivity; • our calculation of expected credit losses for our collateral-dependent loans; • our estimated maximum exposure to losses; • our expectation of loan servicing fee revenue based on forecasted prepayments and estimated market rate of servicing at the time of loan sale; • capital expenditures; • our compliance with contractual obligations or restrictions; • the potential impact of macroeconomic developments, including recessions, inflation or other adverse circumstances; • our ability to develop and maintain effective internal controls; • our ability to recruit and retain quality employees to support current operations and future growth; • our ability to continue to realize the financial and strategic benefits of our digital marketplace bank business model; • changes in the effectiveness and reliability of our information technology and computer systems, including the impact of any security or privacy breach; • the impact of artificial intelligence on our business; • Our ability to control our cost structure; • our ability to manage and repay our indebtedness; and • other risk factors listed from time to time in reports we file with the SEC. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We have included important factors in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report and our other filings with the SEC that could, among other things, cause actual results or events to differ materially from forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. You should read this Annual Report carefully and completely and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We do not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, actual results, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 4 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION PART I Item 1. Business Introduction LendingClub is a digital-first company focused on building lifetime lending relationships with our members. We execute against a core strategy of acquiring new members with our award-winning personal loan product, then engaging and retaining them with other innovative lending, deposit and debt management products. Founded in 2006, LendingClub operates a leading, nationally chartered, digital marketplace that leverages data and technology to increase access to credit, lower borrowing costs, and improve returns on savings. We offer a suite of deposit and loan products through a smart, simple and rewarding digital experience. We retain a portion of the loans we originate and sell the remainder to marketplace investors including banks, credit unions, asset managers, and private credit funds. Since our founding, more than 5 million individuals have become members and we have facilitated more than $95 billion of loans. Our loan origination and deposit gathering model Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to efficiently attract and retain members, build brand awareness, and support member satisfaction. We attract and retain members directly through our website and mobile app, using channels such as, online affiliate partners, direct mail, paid search engines, online display advertising, email, social media, and strategic relationship referrals. When our members need another loan or deposit product, many return to LendingClub – at very low acquisition cost to us – which increases the lifetime value of these repeat members while providing them additional opportunities to improve their financial position. Our primary loan products include unsecured personal loans, patient and education finance loans, and secured auto refinance loans (Consumer Loans). Once a loan application is received, our multivariable and automated processes enable us to assess risk and present approved applicants with one or more loan options, including the term, rate, and amount for which the applicant qualifie