Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 2. Properties 48 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 48 PART II 49 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6. [Reserved] 50 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 75 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 75 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 137 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 137 Item 9B. Other Information 139 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 139 PART III 139 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 139 Item 11. Executive Compensation 139 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 139 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 139 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 139 PART IV 140 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 140 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 140 Signatures 141 Exhibit Index 143 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Glossary The following is a list of common acronyms and terms LendingClub Corporation regularly uses in its financial reporting: Acquisition Acquisition of Radius Bancorp, Inc. AFS Available for Sale ACL Allowance for Credit Losses (includes both the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments) ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Annual Report Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 ASU Accounting Standards Update AUM Assets Under Management (outstanding balances of Loan Originations serviced by the Company including loans sold to investors as well as loans held for investment and held for sale by the Company) Balance Sheet Consolidated Balance Sheets LC Bank or LendingClub Bank LendingClub Bank, National Association CECL Current Expected Credit Losses (Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments) CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 Capital Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III capital framework DCF Discounted Cash Flow EPS Net Income (Loss) Per Share Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FRB or Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and, as applicable, Federal Reserve Bank(s) GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America HFI Loans which are retained by the Company and held for investment HFS Held for sale loans expected to be sold to investors, including Marketplace Loans Income Statement Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) LendingClub, LC, the Company, we, us, or our LendingClub Corporation and its subsidiaries Loan Originations Unsecured personal loans and auto refinance loans originated by the Company or facilitated by third-party issuing banks Marketplace Loans Loan Originations designated as HFS and subsequently sold to investors N/M Not meaningful Parent LendingClub Corporation (the Parent Company of LendingClub Bank, National Association and other subsidiaries) PPNR or Pre-Provision Net Revenue PPNR, or Pre-Provision Net Revenue, is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting the provision for credit losses and income tax benefit/expense from net income. PPP Loans Loans originated pursuant to the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program Radius Radius Bancorp, Inc. ROA Return on Average Total Assets ROE Return on Average Equity SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended 1 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Structured Program transactions Asset-backed securitization transactions and Certificate Program transactions (CLUB and Levered certificates), where certain accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers have the opportunity to invest in securities backed by a pool of unsecured personal whole loans. Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III capital framework. Tier 1 Leverage Ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by quarterly adjusted average assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III capital framework. Total Capital Ratio Total capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and allowance for credit losses and qualifying subordinated debt that qualifies as Tier 2 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III capital framework. Unsecured personal loans Unsecured personal loans originated on the Company’s platforms, including an online direct to consumer platform and a platform connected with a network of education and patient finance providers. VIE Variable Interest Entity 2 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Except as the context requires otherwise, as used herein, “LendingClub,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our,” refer to LendingClub Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and, where appropriate, its consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), including LendingClub Bank, National Association (LC Bank), and various entities established to facilitate loan sale transactions under LendingClub’s Structured Program. Forward-looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 (Annual Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include, without limitation, statements regarding borrowers, credit scoring, our strategy, future operations, expected losses, future financial position, future revenue, projected costs, prospects, plans, objectives of management, expected market growth and the impact on our business. You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “appear,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “intend,” “may,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “strategy,” “target,” “will,” “would,” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about: • our ability to successfully navigate the current economic climate; • our ability to sustain the business under adverse circumstances; • our ability to attract new members, to expand our product offerings and services, to improve revenue and generate recurring earnings, to capture expense benefits, to increase resiliency, and to enhance regulatory clarity; • our ability, and that of third-party partners or providers, to address stricter or heightened regulatory or supervisory requirements and expectations; • our compliance, and that of third-party partners or providers, with applicable local, state and federal laws, regulations and regulatory developments or court decisions affecting our business; • the effects of natural disasters, public health crises, acts of war or terrorism and other external events on our customers and business, including the Ukrainian-Russian conflict; • the impact of changes in laws or the regulatory or supervisory environment, including as a result of legislation, regulation, policies or changes in government officials or other personnel; • the impact of changes in monetary, fiscal, or trade laws or policies; • the impact of accounting standards or policies, including the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) standard; • the results of examinations of us by regulatory authorities and the possibility that any such regulatory authority may, among other things, limit our business activities, increase our allowance for loan losses, increase our capital levels, or affect our ability to borrow funds or maintain or increase deposits; • our ability, and that of third-party partners or providers, to maintain an enterprise risk management framework that is effective in mitigating risk; • our ability to effectively manage capital or liquidity to support our evolving business or operational needs, while remaining compliant with regulatory or supervisory requirements and appropriate risk-management standards; • our ability to attract and retain loan borrowers; • our ability to develop and maintain a strong core deposit base or other low cost funding sources necessary to fund our activities; • the impact of changes in consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits; • the impact of the continuation of or changes in the short-term and long-term interest rate environment; • our expectations on the interplay among origination volume, underwriting standards and interest rates; • the ability of borrowers to repay loans and the plans of borrowers; 3 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION • our ability to maintain investor confidence in the operation of our platform; • our ability to retain existing sources and secure new or additional sources of investor commitments for our platform; • the performance of our loan products and expected rates of return for investors; • platform volume, pricing and balance; • the effectiveness of our platform’s credit scoring models; • our ability to innovate and the adoption and success of new products and services; • the adequacy of our corporate governance, risk-management framework and compliance programs; • the impact of, and our ability to resolve, pending litigation and governmental inquiries and investigations; • the use of our own capital to purchase loans and the impact of holding loans on and our ability to sell loans off our balance sheet; • our financial condition and performance, including the impact that management’s estimates have on our financial performance and the relationship between interim period and full year results; • our ability, and that of third-party partners and providers, to maintain service and quality expectations; • capital expenditures; • our compliance with contractual obligations or restrictions; • the potential impact of macro-economic developments, including recessions, inflation or other adverse circumstances; • the impact of COVID-19; • our ability to develop and maintain effective internal controls; • our ability to recruit and retain quality employees to support current operations and future growth; • our ability to continue to integrate LC Bank and realize the financial and strategic benefits of the acquisition of Radius Bancorp, Inc.; • changes in the effectiveness and reliability of our information technology and computer systems, including the impact of any security or privacy breach; • the impact of expense initiatives and our ability to control our cost structure; • our ability to manage and repay our indebtedness; and • other risk factors listed from time to time in reports we file with the SEC. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We have included important factors in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report and our other filings with the SEC that could, among other things, cause actual results or events to differ materially from forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. You should read this Annual Report carefully and completely and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We do not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, actual results, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 4 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION PART I Item 1. Business Introduction LendingClub is America’s leading digital marketplace bank. As a digitally native, vertically integrated, customer-focused company, and one of a small number of fintech companies with a national bank charter, we are uniquely positioned to rewrite the rules of traditional banking and create a suite of integrated financial products and services that make smart money moves simple and rewarding. We do this by bringing together the best of both worlds – fintech and banking – leveraging data and technology to increase consumer access to credit, lower their borrowing costs, and improve the return on their savings while delivering a seamless experience that focuses on fairness and simplicity. The Company was founded in 2006 and brought a traditional credit product – the installment loan – into the digital age by leveraging technology, data science, and a unique marketplace model. In doing so, we became one of the largest providers of unsecured personal loans in the United States. In February 2021, LendingClub completed the acquisition of an award-winning digital bank, Radius Bancorp, Inc. (Radius), becoming a bank holding company and forming LendingClub Bank, National Association (LC Bank), as its wholly-owned subsidiary through which we operate the vast majority of our business (the Acquisition). The result is a combination of complementary strengths that create an economically attractive and resilient digital marketplace bank. LendingClub’s customers – our “members” – can gain access to a broader range of financial products and services designed to help them digitally optimize their lending, spending, and savings. Economic volatility and the current rising costs of healthcare, housing, education, and more have contributed to millions of everyday Americans having insufficient financial reserves or living paycheck to paycheck, including approximately 50% of those earning over $100,000 annually. They often turn to a limited set of higher cost debt solutions to bridge cash flow gaps and manage their financial lives. Our mission is to empower our members, who are typically high-income and high-FICO consumers, on a path to better financial health, giving them new ways to pay less on their debt and earn more on their savings. Since 2007, more than 4.5 million individuals have become members, joining the 