Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 66 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 84 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 85 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 94 Part III 94 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 95 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 95 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 95 Part IV 95 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 98 Index to Financial Statements F- 1 i Table of Contents INTRODUCTION In this annual report (this “Annual Report”), references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “our business,” “the Company,” “Pagaya” and similar references refer to Pagaya Technologies Ltd., together with its consolidated subsidiaries as a consolidated entity. This Annual Report includes other statistical, market and industry data and forecasts which we obtained from publicly available information and independent industry publications and reports that we believe to be reliable sources. These publicly available industry publications and reports generally state that they obtain their information from sources that they believe to be reliable, but they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information. Additionally, this Annual Report contains estimates, projections and other information concerning our industry and our business, as well as data regarding market research, estimates and forecasts prepared by our management. Information that is based on estimates, forecasts, projections, market research or similar methodologies is inherently subject to uncertainties, and actual events or circumstances may differ materially from events and circumstances that are assumed in this information. The industry in which we operate is subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those discussed under the headings “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A.—Risk Factors” in this Annual Report. SELECTED DEFINITIONS “ ABS ” refers to asset-backed securitizations. “ Adjusted EBITDA ” means net income (loss) attributable to Pagaya Shareholders, excluding share-based compensation expense, change in fair value of warrant liability, impairment, including credit-related charges, restructuring expenses, transaction-related expenses, non-recurring expenses associated with mergers and acquisitions, including the EJFA Merger, interest expense, depreciation expense, and provision (and benefit from) for income taxes. “ Adjusted Net Income (Loss) ” means net income (loss) attributable to Pagaya Shareholders, excluding share-based compensation expense, change in fair value of warrant liability, impairment, including credit-related charges, restructuring expenses, transaction-related expenses, and non-recurring expenses associated with mergers and acquisitions, including the EJFA Merger. “ AI” or “AI technology ” means our proprietary technology, which uses “machine learning” models as a subset of artificial intelligence that go through extensive testing, validation, and governance processes before they can be used or modified. The “machine learning” models require human intervention, testing, and validation; accordingly, the models do not have the ability to self-correct, self-improve, and/or learn over time. “ B. Riley Principal Capital II ” refers to B. Riley Principal Capital II, LLC. “ Capital Restructuring ” refers to, collectively, the Reclassification, the Preferred Share Conversion and the Stock Split as part of the EJFA Merger. “ CFPB ” refers to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “ Class A Ordinary Shares ” refers to the Class A ordinary shares, no par value, of Pagaya, following the Capital Restructuring, which carry voting rights of one vote per share of Pagaya. “ Class B Ordinary Shares ” refers to the Class B ordinary Shares, no par value, of Pagaya, following the Capital Restructuring, which carry voting rights in the form of 10 votes per share of Pagaya. “ Code ” refers to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. “ Companies Law ” refers to the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. “ Continental ” refers to Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, the transfer agent, warrant agent and trustee of Pagaya. “ Credit Agreement ” refers to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of February 2, 2024, by and among Pagaya, as the borrower, Pagaya US Holding Company LLC, as a borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto and Acquiom Agency Services LLC, as administrative agent. “ Darwin ” refers to Darwin Homes, Inc., a Delaware corporation. “ EEA ” refers to the European Economic Area. ii Table of Contents “ Effective Time ” refers to the effective time of the EJFA Merger. “ EJF Investor ” refers to EJF Debt Opportunities Master Fund, LP, a Delaware limited liability company, an affiliate of EJFA. “ EJF Subscription Agreement ” refers to that certain Subscription Agreement, dated as of September 15, 2021, by and between Pagaya and the EJF Investor, providing for the purchase by the EJF Investor at the EJFA Closing of up to 20 million Class A Ordinary Shares at a price per share of $10.00, for an aggregate purchase price of up to $200 million. “ EJFA ” refers to EJF Acquisition Corp., a Cayman Islands exempted company. “ EJFA Class A Ordinary Shares ” refers to the class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of EJFA. “ EJFA Class B Ordinary Shares ” refers to the class B ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of EJFA. “ EJFA Closing ” refers to the consummation of the EJFA Merger. “ EJFA Closing Date ” refers to June 22, 2022. “ EJFA IPO ” refers to the initial public offering of EJFA, which closed on March 1, 2021. “ EJFA Merger ” refers to the merger of EJFA Merger Sub with and into EJFA, as contemplated by the EJFA Merger Agreement. “ EJFA Merger Agreement ” refers to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 15, 2021, by and among EJFA, Pagaya and Merger Sub. “ EJFA Merger Sub ” refers to Rigel Merger Sub Inc., a Cayman Islands exempted company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pagaya. “EJFA Merger Sponsor” refers to Wilson Boulevard LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. “ EJFA Private Placement Warrants ” refers to the 5,166,667 private placement warrants of EJFA entitling the holder to purchase one EJFA Class A Ordinary Share per warrant. “ EJFA Public Warrants ” refers to the 9,583,333 public warrants of EJFA entitling the holder to purchase one EJFA Class A Ordinary Share per warrant. “ EJFA Warrants ” refers to the EJFA Private Placement Warrants and the EJFA Public Warrants. “ Equity Financing Purchase Agreement ” refers to the Ordinary Shares Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2022, by and between Pagaya and B. Riley Principal Capital II. “ Equity Financing Registration Rights Agreement ” refers to the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2022, by and between Pagaya and B. Riley Principal Capital II. “ Exchange Act ” refers to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. “FDIC” refers to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. “ Financing Vehicles ” refers to (i) funds managed or advised by Pagaya or one of its affiliates, (ii) securitization vehicles sponsored or administered by Pagaya or one of its affiliates and (iii) other similar vehicles. “ Founders ” refers to the three founders of Pagaya (including any trusts the beneficiary of which is a founder of Pagaya and to the extent that a founder of Pagaya has the right to vote the shares held by such trust). “ FRB ” refers to the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. “ FRLPC ” means fee revenue less production costs. “ Guarantors ” refers to the guarantors under the Credit Agreement. “ Investment Advisers Act ” refers to the U.S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. iii Table of Contents “ Investment Company Act ” refers to the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. “ Israeli Securities Law ” refers to the Israeli Securities Law, 5728-1968, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. “ ITA ” refers to the Israel Tax Authority. “ ITO ” refers to the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance [New Version], 5721-1961, and the regulations, rules and orders promulgated thereunder, as amended. “ Nasdaq ” refers to The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. “ Network Volume ” refers to the gross dollar amount of assets originated by our Partners with the assistance of our AI technology and, with respect to single-family rental operations, the gross dollar value of services, which may include the value of newly onboarded properties onto our Darwin platform. “ Oak HC/FT ” refers to, collectively, Oak HC/FT Partners V, L.P., Oak HC/FT Partners V-A, L.P. and Oak HC/FT Partners V-B, L.P. “ OCC ” refers to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. “ Pagaya ” refers to Pagaya Technologies Ltd., together with its consolidated subsidiaries as a consolidated entity, a company organized under the laws of the State of Israel. “ Pagaya Articles ” refers to the Articles of Association of Pagaya, dated as of June 22, 2022. “ Pagaya Board ” refers to the board of directors of Pagaya. “ Pagaya Class A-1 Preferred Shares ” refers to the Class A-1 Preferred Shares, nominal value NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Class A Preferred Shares ” refers to the Class A Preferred Shares, nominal value NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Class B Preferred Shares ” refers to the Class B Preferred Shares, nominal value NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Class C Preferred Shares ” refers to the Class C Preferred Shares, nominal value NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Class D Preferred Shares ” refers to the Class D Preferred Shares, nominal value NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Class E Preferred Shares ” refers to the Class E Preferred Shares, nominal value NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Option ” refers to each outstanding and unexercised option to purchase Pagaya Ordinary Shares issued pursuant to the Pagaya Share Plans, whether or not then vested or fully exercisable. “ Pagaya Ordinary Shares ” refers to the ordinary shares, NIS 0.01 each, of Pagaya, prior to the Capital Restructuring, provided, however, that after the Preferred Share Conversion and Reclassification, every reference to Pagaya Ordinary Shares shall be to the Class A Ordinary Shares and Class B Ordinary Shares, collectively. “ Pagaya Preferred Shares ” refers to the Pagaya Class A Preferred Shares, Pagaya Class A-1 Preferred Shares, Pagaya Class B Preferred Shares, Pagaya Class C Preferred Shares, Pagaya Class D Preferred Shares and Pagaya Class E Preferred Shares, prior to the Capital Restructuring. “ Pagaya Shareholders ” refers, prior to the EJFA Merger, to the shareholders of Pagaya and, now, to the current shareholders of Pagaya. “ Pagaya US ” refers to Pagaya US Holding Company LLC. “ Pagaya Voting Agreement ” refers to that certain Company Voting Agreement, dated as of September 15, 2021, by and among EJFA and certain of the Pagaya Shareholders. iv Table of Contents “ Pagaya Warrant ” refers to a warrant exercisable for Pagaya Class A Ordinary Share. “ Partners ” refers to financial institutions including, among others, banks, peer-to-peer lending networks, online marketplaces, non-bank finance companies, fintechs, financing intermediaries, consumer product companies, brokers, agents and credit unions that have entered into arrangements to benefit from Pagaya’s proprietary technology to assist them in creating and originating credit and other assets that may be acquired by a Financing Vehicle. “ PFIC ” refers to a passive foreign investment company. “ PIPE Investment ” refers to the investment by the EJF Investor and by those certain other PIPE Investors pursuant to the Subscription Agreements. “ PIPE Investors ” refers to the EJF Investor and those certain other investors participating in the PIPE Investment pursuant to the Subscription Agreements. “ Preferred Purchase Agreement ” refers to that certain Preferred Shares Purchase Agreement, dated April 14, 2023, by and among Pagaya, Oak HC/FT Partners V, L.P., Oak HC/FT Partners V-A, L.P. and Oak HC/FT Partners V-B, L.P. “ Preferred Share Conversion ” refers to the conversion of the outstanding Pagaya Preferred Shares into Pagaya Ordinary Shares in accordance with the EJFA Merger Agreement. “ Preferred Transaction ” refers to the transaction where we issued and sold Series A Preferred Shares to Oak HC/FT. “ private placement warrants ” refers to the outstanding and unexercised warrants to purchase Class A Ordinary Shares issued by private placement, including those issued and exchanged for the EJFA Private Placement Warrants in connection with the EJFA Merger. “ public warrants ” refers to the outstanding and unexercised warrants to purchase Class A Ordinary Shares issued to holders of EJFA Public Warrants in connection with the EJFA Merger. “ Reclassification ” refers to the reclassification of each Pagaya Ordinary Share that was outstanding immediately following the Preferred Share Conversion (and for the avoidance of doubt, any warrant, right or other security convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable therefor, including each Pagaya Ordinary Share underlying any Pagaya Option), into one Class A Ordinary Share or one Class B Ordinary Share, as applicable, as set forth in the EJFA Merger Agreement. “ Registration Rights Agreement ” refers to the Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement entered into at EJFA Closing, by and among Pagaya, EJFA, the Sponsor and certain equity holders of Pagaya named therein, replacing EJFA’s and Pagaya’s existing registration rights agreements. “ Reverse Share Split ” refers to the 1-to-12 reverse share split that was made effective on March 8, 2024. “ Revolving Credit Facility ” refers to the 5-year senior secured revolving credit facility provided for by the Credit Agreement. “ Rule 10b5-1 Plan ” refers to an individual share trading plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in which the individual will contract with a broker to buy 