Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 78 Item 2. Properties 79 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 79 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 79 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 79 Item 6. Reserved 80 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 81 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 117 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 120 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 210 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 210 Item 9B. Other Information 212 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 212 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 212 Item 11. Executive Compensation 212 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 212 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 212 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 212 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 212 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 214 Signatures 215 1 SoFi Technologies, Inc. T ABLE OF CONTENTS SoFi Technologies, Inc. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “SoFi”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, and similar references refer to SoFi Technologies, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries following the Business Combination (as defined herein) and to Social Finance, Inc. prior to the Business Combination. Social Finance, Inc. (“Social Finance”) entered into a merger agreement (the “Agreement”) with Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V (“SCH”) on January 7, 2021. The transactions contemplated by the terms of the Agreement were completed on May 28, 2021 (the “Closing”), in conjunction with which SCH changed its name to SoFi Technologies, Inc. (hereafter referred to, collectively with its subsidiaries, as “SoFi”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”, unless the context otherwise requires). The transactions contemplated in the Agreement are collectively referred to as the “Business Combination”. As a result of the Business Combination, which was completed on May 28, 2021, share and per share amounts for periods prior to the Business Combination for Social Finance, Inc. have been retroactively converted by application of the exchange ratio of 1.7428. In March 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire Golden Pacific Bancorp, Inc. (“Golden Pacific”), a bank holding company, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Pacific Bank, National Association, a national bank (the “Bank Merger”). The Bank Merger closed in February 2022, after which we became a bank holding company and renamed Golden Pacific Bank as SoFi Bank, National Association (“SoFi Bank”). In February 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire Technisys S.A. (“Technisys”), a Luxembourg société anonyme and a cloud-native digital multi-product core banking platform (the “Technisys Merger”). The Technisys Merger closed in March 2022. See Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within Part II, Item 8. for information on our business combinations. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking and as such are not historical facts. This includes, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for our future operations; anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which our business operates; new products, services and related strategies; anticipated actions by governmental authorities; and macroeconomic conditions. These statements constitute projections, forecasts and forward-looking statements, and are not guarantees of performance. Such statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as “aim”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “continue”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “likely”, “may”, “might”, “opportunity”, “plan”, “possible”, “potential”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “strive”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and include, among other things: • our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future; • the impact on our business of the regulatory environment and complexities with compliance; • the effect and impact of the extension of the federal student loan payment moratorium and the announced loan forgiveness by the federal government, and the potential impact and magnitude of any other governmental actions taken related to student loans; • our ability to manage our growth effectively and our expectations regarding the development and expansion of our business; • our ability to access sources of capital on favorable terms, if at all, including debt financing, deposits and other sources of capital to finance operations and growth; • the impact of and our ability to respond to general economic conditions and other macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, such as increasing interest rates, inflationary pressures, counterparty risk, changing customer demand, capital markets volatility and domestic or international conflicts or disputes; • the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to expand our member base; • our ability to grow market share in existing markets or any new markets we may enter; 2 SoFi Technologies, Inc. T ABLE OF CONTENTS • our ability to develop new products, features and functionality that are competitive and meet market needs; • our ability to diversify our business and broaden our suite of financial services offerings; • our ability to realize the benefits of our strategy, including what we refer to as our Financial Services Productivity Loop, and achieve scale in our Financial Services segment; • our ability to successfully operate as a bank holding company, and to operate SoFi Bank; • our ability to make accurate credit and pricing decisions or effectively forecast our loss rates; • our ability to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting; • our ability to maintain the listing of our securities on The Nasdaq Global Select Market (“Nasdaq”); • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Bank Merger and the Technisys Merger; • our ability to successfully expand our operations into foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • the outcome of any legal or governmental proceedings that may be instituted against us. Forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and reflect current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. TRADEMARKS This document contains references to trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us or belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this document may appear without the ® or ™ symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we or the applicable licensor will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our or its rights to these trademarks, service marks and trade names. SoFi Technologies does not intend its use or display of other companies’ trademarks, service marks or trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of it by, any other companies. All trademarks, service marks and trade names included in this document are the property of their respective owners. 3 SoFi Technologies, Inc. T ABLE OF CONTENTS PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as “members”. Our mission is to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice — more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members “Get Your Money Right” and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. We have built a social area within our digital native application, which we refer to as the member home feed. The member home feed is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do that day in their financial life, what they should consider doing that day in their financial life, and what they can do that day in their financial life. Through the member home feed, there are significant opportunities to build frequent engagement and, to date, the member home feed has been an important driver of new product adoption. The member home feed is an important part of our strategy and our ability to use data as a competitive advantage. To complement these products and services, we believe in establishing partnerships with other enterprises to leverage our existing capabilities to reach a broader market and in building vertically-integrated technology platforms designed to manage and deliver our suite of products and technology solutions to our members and clients in a low-cost and differentiated manner. Our three reportable segments and their primary product offerings as of December 31, 2022 were as follows: (1) Composed of in-school loans and student loan refinancing. (2) Our SoFi Invest service is composed of three products: active investing accounts, robo-advisory accounts and digital assets accounts. SoFi Invest also includes our brokerage accounts through 8 Limited in Hong Kong. Recent Acquisitions In February 2022, we closed the Bank Merger, after which we became a bank holding company and Golden Pacific began operating as SoFi Bank. We believe operating a national bank allows us to provide members and prospective members broader and more competitive options across their financial services needs and lowers our cost of asset-backed financing relative to alternative sources of funding (by utilizing deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans). We also believe that operating as a national bank enables us to offer lower interest rates on loans to members as well as offer higher interest rates on deposit accounts. See “SoFi Bank” herein for additional information on the Bank Merger. 4 SoFi Technologies, Inc. T ABLE OF CONTENTS In March 2022, we closed the Technisys Merger, which added a cloud-native digital and core banking platform with an existing footprint of clients into our technology platform offerings. We believe that the combination of the Technisys core banking platform with our existing technology platform offerings provides an end-to-end vertically integrated technology stack, which we expect will meet the expanding needs of our existing clients and attract new clients. See Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our business combinations. Members We have created an innovative financial services platform designed to offer best-in-class products to meet the broad objectives of our members and the lifecycle of their financial needs. Our platform offers our members (as defined under Part II, Item 7. “Key Business Metrics” ) a suite of financial products and services, enabling them to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their finances across one integrated platform. Our aim is to create a best-in-class, integrated financial services platform that will generate a virtuous cycle whereby positive member experiences will lead to new product adoption by existing members and enhanced profitability for each additional product by lowering overall member acquisition costs and increasing the lifetime value of our members. We refer to this virtuous cycle as our “Financial Services Productivity Loop”, which is further discussed below. Enterprises In addition to benefiting our members, our products and capabilities are also designed to appeal to enterprises, such as financial services institutions that subscribe to our enterprise services and have become interconnected with the SoFi platform. We have continued to expand our platform capabilities for enterprises through our acquisition of Galileo in 2020, which provides technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions and which has allowed us to vertically integrate across more of our financial services, and the Technisys Merger in the first quarter of 2022, through which we added a cloud-native digital and core banking platform into our technology platform offerings and expanded our technology platform services to a broader international market. We believe that these expansions will deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services, allowing us to not only reduce costs to operat