Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 124 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 127 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 211 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 211 Item 9B. Other Information 212 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 213 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 213 Item 11. Executive Compensation 213 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 213 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 213 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 213 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 213 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 215 Signatures 216 1 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Glossary of Terms and Acronyms ACH : Automated clearing house GAAP : U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles AFS : Available-for-sale GLBA : Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ALCO : Asset Liability Committee Golden Pacific : Golden Pacific Bancorp, Inc. AWS : Amazon Web Services GSE : Government-Sponsored Enterprise AOCI : Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) HFI : Held for investment ASU : Accounting Standards Update HFS : Held for sale ATDS : Automatic telephone dialing systems HMDA : Home Mortgage Disclosure Act BHCA : Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended IRLC : Interest rate lock commitment BPS : Basis points IRS : Internal Revenue Service BSA : Bank Secrecy Act LIBOR : London Inter-Bank Offered Rate CALM : Capital and Asset Liability Management policy MLA : Military Lending Act CARES Act : Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act MOHELA : Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority CCPA : California Consumer Privacy Act MSB : Money services business CD : Community Development MSRB : Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board CET1 : Common Equity Tier 1 NACHA : National Automated Clearinghouse Association CFP : Certified financial planners Nasdaq : The Nasdaq Global Select Market CFPB : Consumer Financial Protection Bureau OCC : Office of the Comptroller of the Currency CFTC : Commodity Futures Trading Commission OFAC : Office of Foreign Assets Control CISO : Chief Information Security Officer PCD : Purchased credit deteriorated CODM : Chief Operating Decision Maker PFOF : Payment for order flow CPA : Colorado Privacy Act PSU : Performance stock units CPPA : California Privacy Protection Act QIA : Qatar Investment Authority CPRA : California Privacy Rights Act RESPA : Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act CRA : Community Reinvestment Act ROU : Right-of-use DACA : Deferred Access for Childhood Arrival RSU : Restricted stock units DCF : Discounted cash flow SCH : Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V DE&I : Diversity, Equity and Inclusion SCRA : Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act DEP : Digital engagement practices SEC : U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Dodd-Frank Act : Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer SPAC : Special purpose acquisition company Protection Act of 2010 Social Finance : Social Finance, Inc. DSU : Deferred stock units SoFi Bank : SoFi Bank, National Association EC : European Commission SoFi Capital Advisors : SoFi Capital Advisors, LLC ECOA : Equal Credit Opportunity Act SoFi Securities : SoFi Securities LLC EFTA : Electronic Fund Transfer Act SoFi Stadium : The LA Stadium and Entertainment District at Hollywood ESG : Environmental, social and corporate governance Park in Inglewood, California ESIGN : Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act SoFi Wealth : SoFi Wealth LLC ETF : Exchange-Traded Funds SOFR : Secured Overnight Financing Rate FCA : Financial Conduct Authority SPE : Special purpose entity FCRA : Fair Credit Reporting Act SRO : Self-regulatory organizations FDCPA : Fair Debt Collection Practices Act TBA : To-be-announced FDIA : Federal Deposit Insurance Act TCJA : Tax Cuts and Jobs Act FDIC : Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation TCPA : Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act Federal Reserve : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Technisys : Technisys S.A., a Luxembourg société anonyme FHA : Fair Housing Act TDR : Troubled debt restructuring FHFA : Federal Housing Finance Agency TILA : Truth in Lending Act FHLB : Federal Home Loan Bank UDAAP : Unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices FinCEN : Financial Crimes Enforcement Network UETA : Uniform Electronic Transactions Act FINRA : Financial Industry Regulatory Authority URG : Underrepresented Group FRB : Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco VA : United Stated Department of Veterans Affairs FTC : Federal Trade Commission VIE : Variable interest entity FTP : Fund transfer pricing Wyndham : Wyndham Capital Mortgage 2 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENT S SoFi Technologies, Inc. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “SoFi”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, and similar references refer to SoFi Technologies, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries following the Business Combination (as defined herein) and to Social Finance, Inc. prior to the Business Combination. Social Finance, Inc. (“Social Finance”) entered into a merger agreement (the “Agreement”) with Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V (“SCH”) on January 7, 2021. The transactions contemplated by the terms of the Agreement were completed on May 28, 2021 (the “Closing”), in conjunction with which SCH changed its name to SoFi Technologies, Inc. The transactions contemplated in the Agreement are collectively referred to as the “Business Combination”. In February 2022, we acquired Golden Pacific Bancorp, Inc. (“Golden Pacific”), a bank holding company, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Pacific Bank, National Association, a national bank (the “Bank Merger”), after which we became a bank holding company and renamed Golden Pacific Bank as SoFi Bank, National Association (“SoFi Bank”). In March 2022, we acquired Technisys S.A. (“Technisys”), a Luxembourg société anonyme and a cloud-native digital multi-product core banking platform (the “Technisys Merger”). In April 2023, we acquired Wyndham, a fintech mortgage lender. See Note 2. Business Combinations to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within Part II, Item 8. for information on our business combinations. Refer to Glossary of Terms and Acronyms for the definitions of certain terms, acronyms and abbreviations used in this document. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking and as such are not historical facts. This includes, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for our future operations; anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which our business operates; new products, services and related strategies; anticipated actions by governmental authorities; and macroeconomic conditions. These statements constitute projections, forecasts and forward-looking statements, and are not guarantees of performance. Such statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as “aim”, “allow”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “can”, “continue”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “likely”, “may”, “might”, “opportunity”, “plan”, “possible”, “potential”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “strive”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC and include, among other things: • our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future; • the impact on our business of the regulatory environment and complexities with compliance; • the effect and impact of evolving laws, rules, regulations and government enforcement policies, including any federal or state loan forgiveness programs; • the impact of adverse developments affecting the U.S. or global banking industry, including bank failures and liquidity concerns, which could cause economic and market volatility, and regulatory responses thereto; • our ability to manage our growth effectively and our expectations regarding the development and expansion of our business; • our ability to continue to originate and sell loans to third parties, and the impact of the performance of loans held on our balance sheet; • our ability to access sources of capital on favorable terms, if at all, including debt financing, deposits and other sources of capital to finance operations and growth; • the impact of and our ability to respond to general economic conditions and other macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, such as elevated and fluctuating interest rates, inflationary pressures, counterparty risk, changing customer 3 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENT S demand, capital markets volatility, instability in the financial services industry, a potential U.S. government shutdown, the possibility of a recession, and domestic or international conflicts or disputes; • the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to expand our member base; • our ability to grow market share in existing markets or any new markets we may enter; • our ability to develop new products, features and functionality that are competitive and meet market needs; • our ability to diversify our business and broaden our suite of financial services offerings; • our ability to realize the benefits of our strategy, including what we refer to as our Financial Services Productivity Loop, and achieve scale in our Financial Services segment; • our ability to successfully operate as a bank holding company, and to operate SoFi Bank; • our ability to make accurate credit and pricing decisions or effectively forecast our loss rates; • our ability to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting; • our ability to maintain the listing of our securities on the Nasdaq; • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Bank Merger, the Technisys Merger, our acquisition of Wyndham, and any other acquisitions we undertake, including our expectations with regards to such acquisitions; • our ability to successfully expand our operations into foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • the outcome of any legal or governmental proceedings that may be instituted against us. Forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and reflect current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. TRADEMARKS This document contains references to trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us or belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this document may appear without the ® or ™ symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we or the applicable licensor will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our or its rights to these trademarks, service marks and trade names. SoFi Technologies does not intend its use or display of other companies’ trademarks, service marks or trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of it by, any other companies. All trademarks, service marks and trade names included in this document are the property of their respective owners. 4 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENT S PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as “members” and “clients”. Our mission is to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice — more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members “Get Your Money Right” and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. In order to help achieve our mission, we offer personal loans, student loans, home loans and related servicing. We offer a variety of financial services products, such as SoFi Money, SoFi Credit Card, SoFi Invest and SoFi Relay, that provide more daily interactions with our members, as well as lending as a service which helps a broader range of borrowers to find lending solutions. We offer products and capabilities, such as SoFi At Work, that are designed to appeal to enterprises. We have also made strategic acquisitions to further expand our platform capabilities for enterprises, which we believe will deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services. We have built a social area within our digital native application, which we refer to as the member home feed. The member home feed is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do t