Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 82 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 82 Item 2. Properties 83 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 84 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 84 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 85 Item 6. Reserved 86 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 86 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 133 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 137 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 225 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 225 Item 9B. Other Information 227 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 227 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 227 Item 11. Executive Compensation 227 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 227 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 227 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 227 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 227 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 230 Signatures 231 1 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Glossary of Terms and Acronyms ACH : Automated clearing house FTC : Federal Trade Commission AFS : Available-for-sale FTP : Fund transfer pricing ALCO : Asset Liability Committee GAAP : U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles AWS : Amazon Web Services GLBA : Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act AOCI : Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Golden Pacific : Golden Pacific Bancorp, Inc. ASU : Accounting Standards Update GSE : Government-Sponsored Enterprise ATDS : Automatic telephone dialing systems HELOC : Home Equity Line of Credit BHCA : Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended HFI : Held for investment bps : Basis points HFS : Held for sale BSA : Bank Secrecy Act HMDA : Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Business Combination: Transactions contemplated in a merger agreement entered IRLC : Interest rate lock commitment into by Social Finance, Inc. with Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V on IRR : Interest rate risk January 7, 2021 IRS : Internal Revenue Service CARES Act : Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act LIBOR : London Inter-Bank Offered Rate CCPA : California Consumer Privacy Act MLA : Military Lending Act CD : Community Development MSB : Money services business CET1 : Common Equity Tier 1 MSRB : Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board CFP : Certified financial planners NACHA : National Automated Clearinghouse Association CFPA : Consumer Financial Protection Act Nasdaq : The Nasdaq Global Select Market CFPB : Consumer Financial Protection Bureau NII : Net Interest Income CFTC : Commodity Futures Trading Commission OCC : Office of the Comptroller of the Currency CISO : Chief Information Security Officer OFAC : Office of Foreign Assets Control CODM : Chief Operating Decision Maker PCD : Purchased credit deteriorated CPA : Colorado Privacy Act PD : Probability of Default CPPA : California Privacy Protection Act PFOF : Payment for order flow CPRA : California Privacy Rights Act PSU : Performance stock units CRA : Community Reinvestment Act QIA : Qatar Investment Authority DACA : Deferred Access for Childhood Arrival RESPA : Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act DCF : Discounted cash flow ROU : Right-of-use DEP : Digital engagement practices RSU : Restricted stock units Dodd-Frank Act : Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer SCH : Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V Protection Act of 2010 SCRA : Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act DSU : Deferred stock units SEC : U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission DTC : Depository Trust Company SPAC : Special purpose acquisition company EAD : Exposure at Default Social Finance : Social Finance, LLC (formerly Social Finance, Inc.) EBRC : Enterprise Broad Risk Committee SoFi Bank : SoFi Bank, National Association EC : European Commission SoFi Capital Advisors : SoFi Capital Advisors, LLC ECOA : Equal Credit Opportunity Act SoFi Securities : SoFi Securities LLC EFTA : Electronic Fund Transfer Act SoFi Stadium : The LA Stadium and Entertainment District at Hollywood EPS : Earnings (loss) per share of common stock Park in Inglewood, California ESG : Environmental, social and corporate governance SoFi Wealth : SoFi Wealth LLC ESIGN : Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act SOFR : Secured Overnight Financing Rate ESPP : Employee Stock Purchase Plan SPE : Special purpose entity ETF : Exchange-Traded Funds SRO : Self-regulatory organizations EVE : Economic value of equity TBA : To-be-announced security FCA : Financial Conduct Authority TCJA : Tax Cuts and Jobs Act FCRA : Fair Credit Reporting Act TCPA : Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act FDCPA : Fair Debt Collection Practices Act Technisys : Technisys S.A., a Luxembourg société anonyme FDIA : Federal Deposit Insurance Act TDR : Troubled debt restructuring FDIC : Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation TGL : TMRW Golf League Federal Reserve : Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System TILA : Truth in Lending Act FHA : Fair Housing Act UDAAP : Unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices FHFA : Federal Housing Finance Agency UETA : Uniform Electronic Transactions Act FHLB : Federal Home Loan Bank VA : United Stated Department of Veterans Affairs FinCEN : Financial Crimes Enforcement Network VIE : Variable interest entity FINRA : Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Wyndham : Wyndham Capital Mortgage FRB : Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 2 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS SoFi Technologies, Inc. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “SoFi”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, and similar references refer to SoFi Technologies, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. See Note 2. Business Combinations to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within Part II, Item 8. for information on our business combinations. Refer to Glossary of Terms and Acronyms for the definitions of certain terms, acronyms and abbreviations used in this document. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking and as such are not historical facts. This includes, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for our future operations; anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which our business operates; new products, services and related strategies; anticipated actions by governmental authorities; and macroeconomic conditions. These statements constitute projections, forecasts and forward-looking statements, and are not guarantees of performance. Such statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as “aim”, “allow”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “can”, “continue”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “likely”, “may”, “might”, “opportunity”, “plan”, “possible”, “possibility”, “potential”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “strive”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC and include, among other things: • our ability to maintain or enhance profitability in the future; • the impact on our business of the current and evolving regulatory environment and complexities with compliance; • the effect and impact of evolving laws, rules, regulations, executive actions and government enforcement policies, including any federal or state loan forgiveness programs; • the impact of adverse developments affecting the U.S. or global banking industry, including bank failures and liquidity concerns, which could cause economic and market volatility, and regulatory responses thereto; • our ability to manage our growth effectively and execute our strategy with respect to the development and expansion of our business, including through continuing to enhance our brand and attract additional members; • our ability to continue to originate and sell loans to third parties, and the impact of the performance of loans held on our balance sheet; • our ability to access sources of capital on favorable terms, if at all, including debt financing, deposits and other sources of capital to finance operations and growth; • the impact of and our ability to respond to general economic conditions and other macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, such as elevated and fluctuating interest rates, inflationary pressures, increased tariffs, counterparty risk, changing customer demand and employment rates, capital markets volatility, instability in the financial services industry, a potential U.S. government shutdown, uncertainty stemming from recent changes to the U.S. presidential administration and its regulatory priorities and focus, the possibility of a recession, and domestic or international conflicts or disputes; • the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to expand our member base; • our ability to grow market share in existing markets or any new markets we may enter; • our ability to develop new products and services, features and functionality that are competitive and meet market needs; • our ability to diversify our business and broaden our suite of financial services offerings; • our ability to realize the benefits of our strategy, including what we refer to as our Financial Services Productivity Loop, and achieve scale in our Financial Services segment; • our ability to successfully operate as a bank holding company, and to operate SoFi Bank; 3 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS • our ability to make accurate credit and pricing decisions or effectively forecast our loss rates; • our ability to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting; • our ability to maintain the listing of our securities on Nasdaq; • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of prior acquisitions and any additional acquisitions we undertake; • our ability to successfully expand our operations into foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • the outcome of any legal or governmental proceedings that may be instituted against us. Forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and reflect current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. TRADEMARKS This document contains references to trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us or belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this document may appear without the ® or ™ symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we or the applicable licensor will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our or its rights to these trademarks, service marks and trade names. SoFi Technologies does not intend its use or display of other companies’ trademarks, service marks or trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of it by, any other companies. All trademarks, service marks and trade names included in this document are the property of their respective owners. 4 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a mission driven company designed to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice — more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members “Get Your Money Right” and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. In order to help achieve our mission, we are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as “members” and “clients”. We offer personal loans, student loans, home loans and related servicing and offer a variety of financial services products, such as SoFi Money, SoFi Credit Card, SoFi Invest and SoFi Relay, that provide more daily interactions with our members, as well as products and capabilities, such as SoFi At Work, that are designed to appeal to enterprises. Lending related services that we offer through our Loan Platform Business help a broader range of borrowers to find lending solutions, through our relationships with members as well as third-party enterprise partners. We have also made strategic acquisitions to further expand our technology platform capabilities for enterprises, which we believe deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services. We have built a personalized area within our digital native application, which we refer to as the member home experience. The member home experie