Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 74 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 125 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 128 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 214 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 214 Item 9B. Other Information 214 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 214 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 214 Item 11. Executive Compensation 214 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 215 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 215 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 215 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 215 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 217 Signatures 218 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS SoFi Technologies, Inc. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “SoFi”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our”, and similar references refer to SoFi Technologies, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries following the Business Combination (as defined herein) and to Social Finance, Inc. prior to the Business Combination. Social Finance, Inc. (“Social Finance”) entered into a merger agreement (the “Agreement”) with Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V (“SCH”) on January 7, 2021. The transactions contemplated by the terms of the Agreement were completed on May 28, 2021 (the “Closing”), in conjunction with which SCH changed its name to SoFi Technologies, Inc. (hereafter referred to, collectively with its subsidiaries, as “SoFi”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”, unless the context otherwise requires). The transactions contemplated in the Agreement are collectively referred to as the “Business Combination”. As a result of the Business Combination completed on May 28, 2021, share and per share amounts presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for periods prior to the Business Combination for Social Finance, Inc. have been retroactively converted by application of the exchange ratio of 1.7428. For more information regarding the Business Combination, see Item 8, Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In March 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire Golden Pacific Bancorp, Inc. (“Golden Pacific”), a bank holding company, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Pacific Bank, National Association, a national bank, for a total cash purchase price of $22.3 million (the “Bank Merger”). The Bank Merger closed in February 2022, after which we became a bank holding company and renamed Golden Pacific Bank as SoFi Bank, National Association (“SoFi Bank”). In February 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire Technisys S.A. (“Technisys”), a cloud-native digital multi-product core banking platform, for total purchase consideration, in the form of shares of SoFi common stock, of $1.1 billion (the “Technisys Merger”). CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking and as such are not historical facts. This includes, without limitation, statements regarding the financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for our future operations; anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which our business operates; and new products, services and related strategies. These statements constitute projections, forecasts and forward-looking statements, and are not guarantees of performance. Such statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, words such as “aim”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “continue”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “may”, “might”, “opportunity”, “plan”, “possible”, “potential”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “strive”, “will”, “would” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include, for example, statements about: • the effect of and uncertainties related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic (including any government responses thereto) and any continued recovery from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; • our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future; • the impact on our business of the regulatory environment and complexities with compliance; • our ability to respond to general economic conditions; • our ability to manage our growth effectively and our expectations regarding the development and expansion of our business; • our ability to access sources of capital, including debt financing and other sources of capital to finance operations and growth; • the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to expand our member base; • our ability to grow market share in existing markets or any new markets we may enter; • our ability to develop new products, features and functionality that are competitive and meet market needs; • our ability to diversify our core student loan business into other lending products and broaden our suite of financial services offerings; • our ability to realize the benefits of our strategy, including what we refer to as our Financial Services Productivity Loop, and achieve scale in our Financial Services segment; 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our ability to successfully operate as a bank holding company, and to own and operate SoFi Bank; • our ability to make accurate credit and pricing decisions or effectively forecast our loss rates; • our ability to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting; • our ability to maintain the listing of our securities on The Nasdaq Global Select Market (“Nasdaq”); • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Business Combination, the Bank Merger and the anticipated Technisys Merger; and • the outcome of any legal or governmental proceedings that may be instituted against us. These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. As a result of a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, our actual results or performance may be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. TRADEMARKS This document contains references to trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us or belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this document may appear without the ® or ™ symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we or the applicable licensor will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our or its rights to these trademarks, service marks and trade names. SoFi Technologies does not intend its use or display of other companies’ trademarks, service marks or trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of it by, any other companies. All trademarks, service marks and trade names included in this document are the property of their respective owners. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as “members”. Our mission is to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice — more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members “Get Your Money Right” and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. We have created an innovative financial services platform designed to offer best-in-class products to meet the broad objectives of our members and the lifecycle of their financial needs. We define a member as someone who has a lending relationship with us through origination and/or ongoing servicing, opened a financial services account, linked an external account to our platform, or signed up for our credit score monitoring service. Once someone becomes a member, they are always considered a member unless they violate our terms of service. Our members have continuous access to our certified financial planners (“CFPs”), our career advice services, our member events, our content, educational material, news, tools and calculators at no cost to the member. Additionally, our mobile app and website have a member home feed that is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do that day in their financial life, what they should consider doing that day in their financial life, and what they can do that day in their financial life. We believe we are in the early stages of the digital transformation of financial services and, as a result, have a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our member base and increase the number of products that our members use on the SoFi platform. In addition to benefiting our members, our products and capabilities are also designed to appeal to enterprises, such as financial services institutions that subscribe to our enterprise services called SoFi At Work, and have become interconnected with the SoFi platform. We have continued to expand our platform capabilities for enterprises through our acquisition of Galileo in 2020, which provides technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions and which has allowed us to vertically integrate across more of our financial services, and our anticipated acquisition of Technisys in 2022, through which we will expand our technology platform services to a broader international market. While we primarily operate in the United States, we expanded into Hong Kong with our acquisition of 8 Limited (an investment business), we gained clients in Mexico and Colombia with our acquisition of Galileo, and we expect to further expand into Latin America with our anticipated acquisition of Technisys. We believe that these expansions will deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services, allowing us to not only reduce costs to operate our member-centric business, but also deliver increasing value to our enterprise customers. While our enterprises are not considered members, they are important contributors to the growth of the SoFi platform, and also have their own constituents who might benefit from our products in the future. National Bank Charter A key element of our long-term strategy to better serve our members has been to secure a national bank charter. In January 2022, we received regulatory approval to become a bank holding company and to acquire Golden Pacific, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Pacific Bank, National Association, a national bank (“Golden Pacific Bank”). We also received approval to change the composition of Golden Pacific Bank’s assets. We closed the Bank Merger in February 2022, after which we became a bank holding company and Golden Pacific Bank began operating as SoFi Bank. See “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—National Bank Charter ” for additional information on our regulatory approval process and the Bank Merger. We believe that operating as a bank holding company can enhance our overall profitability. While we have historically relied on third-party bank holding companies to provide banking services to our members (as discussed further in “ Our Products ” below), we believe that operating under a national bank charter will allow us to provide members and prospective members broader and more competitive options across their financial services needs, including deposit accounts and loan products, and lower our cost to fund loans (by utilizing our members deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans), which we 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS believe will enable us to offer lower interest rates on loans to members as well as offer higher interest rates on deposit accounts. Following the Bank Merger, we have begun to transfer SoFi Money products to SoFi Bank and intend to continue to transfer our SoFi Money, lending, and SoFi Credit Card products to SoFi Bank over time. Our Differentiation In order to build best-in-class offerings, we focus on four differentiators: fast, selection, content and convenience. (1) Fast — We aspire to be the fastest place for our members to responsibly do anything, whether it’s applying for a loan, getting a funded loan, opening an account, buying or selling a stock, uploading a mobile check, getting access to money, paying a friend, or accessing relevant financial content. Other than certain products acquired and offered through SoFi Bank, our products are all digital and we have a culture of iteration to help drive faster and faster services. (2) Selection — Given the digital nature of our products, the permutations of features and services that can be made available to our members across their needs to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect are significant. We will continue to iterate, learn and innovate to broaden our selection in the same way we did by providing our members with the ability to buy single stocks without commissions, purchase fractional shares, invest in SoFi proprietary robo-advisory portfolios, and invest in SoFi-branded Exchange-Traded Funds. (3) Conte