Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 108 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 112 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 172 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 172 Item 9B. Other Information 174 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 174 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 174 Item 11. Executive Compensation 174 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 175 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 175 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 175 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 175 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 177 3 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws about us and our industry, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “seek,” “could,” “intend,” “target,” “aim,” “project,” “contemplate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include statements about: • our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, our operating expenses, our ability to determine reserves and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability; • our ability to improve the effectiveness and predictiveness of our AI models and our expectations that improvements in our AI models can lead to higher approval rates and lower interest rates; • our ability to increase the volume of loans facilitated through our AI lending marketplace; • our ability to successfully maintain a diversified and resilient loan funding strategy, including lending partnerships, whole loan sales, committed capital arrangements and securitization transactions; • our capital allocation plans, including expectations regarding funding loans through our balance sheet and allocations of cash and timing for any share repurchases and other investments; • our ability to maintain competitive interest rates offered to borrowers on our platform, while enabling our lending partners and institutional investors to achieve an adequate return over their cost of funding; • our ability to successfully build our brand and protect our reputation from negative publicity; • our ability to increase the effectiveness of our marketing strategies, including our direct consumer marketing initiatives; • our expectations regarding macroeconomic events, including rising interest and inflation rates and monetary policy changes; • our expectations regarding the credit performance of Upstart-powered loans; • the impact of recent bank failures, including disruption in the banking industry, and any associated effects on our business and industry; • our expectations and management of future growth, including expanding the number of potential borrowers; • our ability to successfully adjust our proprietary AI models, products and services, and provide up-to-date information to our lending partners, in a timely manner in response to changing macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in the credit market; • our compliance with applicable local, state and federal laws; • our ability to comply with and successfully adapt to complex and evolving regulatory environments, including regulation of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology; • our expectations regarding regulatory support of our approach to AI-based lending; • our expectations regarding the success of our strategic investments and acquisitions, including the integration of acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls and personnel; 4 • our expectations regarding new and evolving markets and our ability to enter into new markets and introduce new products and services; • our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; • our ability to protect against increasingly sophisticated fraudulent borrowing and online theft; • our ability to service our loans and pursue collection of delinquent and defaulted loans; • our ability to successfully compete with companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the markets in which we operate; • our ability to effectively secure and maintain the confidentiality of the information received, accessed, stored, provided and used across our systems; • our ability to successfully obtain and maintain corporate funding and liquidity to support continued growth and for general corporate purposes; • our ability to attract, integrate and retain qualified employees; • our ability to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting and operations; • our ability to effectively manage and expand the capabilities of our operations teams, outsourcing relationships and other business operations; • our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; • our expectations regarding outstanding litigation and regulatory investigations; and • our ability to manage the increased expenses associated with being a public company. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this report. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this report primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled “ Risk Factors ” and elsewhere in this report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this report relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Undue reliance should not be placed on our forward-looking statements as we may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures, or investments we may make. 5 In addition, statements that “we believe” and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Each of the terms the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” and similar terms used herein refer collectively to Upstart Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. 6 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Upstart is the leading artificial intelligence (“AI”) lending marketplace, connecting millions of consumers to more than 100 banks and credit unions that leverage Upstart’s AI models and cloud applications to deliver superior credit products. Founded in 2012, Upstart’s platform includes personal loans, automotive retail and refinance loans, home equity lines of credit (“HELOCs”), and small dollar loans. We’re dedicated to improving access to credit for all. Money is a fundamental ingredient of life, and unless you are in the few percent of Americans with significant wealth, the price of borrowing affects you every day. Throughout history, affordable credit has been central to unlocking mobility and opportunity. The FICO score was invented in 1989 and remains the standard for determining who is approved for credit and at what interest rate. While FICO is rarely the only input in a lending decision, most lenders use simple rules-based systems that consider only a limited number of variables. Unfortunately, because these legacy credit systems fail to accurately identify and quantify risk, millions of creditworthy individuals are left out of the system, and millions more pay too much to borrow money. Upstart AI remakes the lending process. We leverage AI to more accurately quantify the true risk of a loan. Our AI models have been continuously upgraded, trained and refined for more than ten years. We apply AI models to income and identity fraud, acquisition targeting, loan stacking, time-delimited default and prepayment prediction, and servicing. Powered by more than 1,600 variables 1 , our models are trained on more than 58 million repayment events, adding an average of 83,000 new repayments each business day. We believe the flywheel effects generated by our constantly improving AI models provide a significant competitive advantage. More training data generally leads to higher approval rates and lower interest rates with better returns to our bank and credit union partners, collectively our “lending partners.” Our AI also enables our lending partners to deliver an exceptional digital-first experience. They can respond instantly to a customer’s loan request 24/7 with no human intervention. In 2023, more than 87% 2 of our loans were fully automated where borrowers were approved instantly, with zero documentation to upload. Our AI marketplace connects consumers with our lending partners. Consumers can access Upstart-powered loans via Upstart.com, through a lender-branded product on our lending partners’ own websites, and through auto dealerships that use our Upstart Auto Retail software. Loans issued through our marketplace are retained by our lending partners, purchased by our network of institutional investors, or funded by Upstart’s balance sheet. Investors may also invest in securities collateralized by Upstart-powered loans through our pass-through and securitization programs. As of December 31, 2023, out of the total principal of loan originations facilitated on our marketplace in 2023, 48% were purchased by institutional investors, 32% were retained by our lending partners, 16% were held on our balance sheet, and the remaining 4% were contributed as collateral to the securitization transaction completed in July 2023, which we have consolidated in our financial statements. In the year ended December 31, 2023, our top three lending partners originated 80% of the loans facilitated through our marketplace and fees received from these 1 “Variables” refers to raw variables and combined variables considered in our AI models. A “raw” variable is a non-combined, conceptually distinct unit of data, such as “applicant-reported savings.” A “combined” variable is data that has been transformed, combined, or otherwise engineered from a raw variable or set of raw variables, such as “applicant-reported savings” divided by “loan amount.” 2 Percentage of Loans Fully Automated is defined as the total number of loans in a given period originated end-to-end (from initial rate request to final funding for personal loans and small dollar loans, and from initial rate request to signing of the loan agreement for auto loans) with no human involvement required divided by the Transaction Volume, Number of Loans in the same period. 7 Table of Contents lending partners accounted for 63% of our total revenue. Our goal is to continue expanding our lending partnerships to new participants and deepen our relationships with existing lending partners. Institutional investors play an important role in our lending marketplace by providing capital for higher risk loans that may not be economically feasible for traditional banks and credit unions to hold. We enter into nonexclusive agreements with our institutional investors who purchase whole loans, the trust entities in our pass-through programs and the grantor trust entities in our asset-backed securitizations. To improve the loan funding capacity for our marketplace across business and macroeconomic cycles, we secured multiple committed capital arrangements with institutional investors in 2023, which delivered a significant amount of loan funding to the Upstart marketplace. We continue our work on further developing and securing committed capital arrangements for our marketplace. Our revenue is primarily comprised of fees paid by lending partners and institutional investors. We charge our lending partners platform and referral fees at origination and the agreements with our lending partners may contain minimum fee amounts. We also earn loan servicing revenue from contracts with lending partners and institutional investors. As a usage-based platform, we target positive unit economics on each transaction, leading to a cash efficient business model with high margins. We believe these are the key components to achieve both high growth rates and profitability over time. Our AI Lending Models Our AI models are central to our value proposition and unique position in the industry. They are central to the efficacy of the Upstart marketplace experience we provide 